101 Fun and Creative Date Ideas
Regular date nights help build a strong relationship and create wonderful memories. 
Here’s a list of the rst 101 date ideas we have shared on our website & social media feeds. 
For additional details and photos of each date idea, search for the date idea number (#)   
on our website: www.DateEveryWeek.com

  Explore a new neighborhood on a walk (#1)   Go shopping and buy each other a $10 gift (#21)
  Build a snowman together (#2)   Blindfold your date for part of the evening (#22)
  Thrift store clothing photo shoot (#3)   Smash random objects in a rage room (#23)
  Take a new car for a test drive (#4)   Leave a trail of gold coins to a pot of gold (#24)
  Heart-pounding game of Paintball (#5)   Watch an Irish or Saint Patrick’s Day Movie (#25)
  Play a favorite childhood board game   Make a four-course dinner of only green 
       together (#6)        food (#26)
  Have a backyard camping experience (#7)   Color Celtic knotwork coloring sheets (#27)
  Challenge each other on the go kart track (#8)   Play a game of horseshoes (#28)
  Use your puzzle solving skills at the local   Pot luck dinner with friends (#29)
       escape room (#9)   Watch a YouTube performance from Celtic 
  Bake a cake together (#10)        Woman (#30)
  Watch a hockey game (#11)   Make a wish in a wishing well (#31)
  Build a jigsaw puzzle together (#12)   Feed those lucky tastebuds with a yummy 
  Host a murder mystery dinner party (#13)        green dessert (#32)
  Explore the frozen wonder of ice castles (#14)   Look at house plans online and nd your 
  Visit a new store you have never been inside         dream home (#33)
       before (#15)   Have an epic pillow ght (#34)
  Plan a lucky Saint Patrick’s Theme Date (#16)   Find some wind and y a kite (#35)
  Explore the outdoors in snow shoes (#17)   Take the 5 Love Languages Quiz & Discuss (#36)
  Make the ultimate banana split (#18)   Spend a day on the slopes spring skiing (#37)
  Challenge each other at a few games of   Test your skills at glow-in-the-dark miniature
       poker (#19)        golng (#38)
  Drive around to nd the location of the   Write down items on your bucket list (#39)
       searchlight (#20)   Create your own homemade pizza (#40)



  Build or paint a birdhouse for your yard (#41)   Adopt a sh from the pet store (#75)
  Color Easter Eggs (#42)   Create the ultimate nacho or salsa bar (#76)
  Have a jelly bean taste test (#43)   Take a scenic train ride (#77)
  Egg drop challenge competition (#44)   Visit a historic mansion and take a tour (#78)
  Make & Decorate Easter Cookies (#45)   Enjoy the beautiful scenery by taking a 
  Easter Scavenger Hunt (#46)        helicopter tour (#79)
  Study the Easter story of Jesus Christ (#47)   Create a memory match game by using your 
  Create Easter baskets from the dollar store (#48)        social media photos (#80)
  Couples Easter egg hunt (#49)   Share a “spaghetti kiss” while eating pasta (#81)
  Paint Easter Eggs (#50)   Setup an arena in your home and have a Nerf 
  Play the two-player “Lost Cities” card game (#51)        War (#82)
  Plant a new ower in your yard (#52)   Visit a local chocolate store for a delicious date 
  Order dinner for each other without input (#53)        dessert (#83)
  Go Axe Throwing (#54)   Create a diamond painting masterpiece (#84)
  Read a good book together (#55)   View the owers at a Spring Tulip Festival (#85)
  Play a game of Pickleball (#56)   Sit back at home and listen to a podcast (#86)
  Check out an exotic car showroom (#57)   Taste delicious liquid nitrogen ice cream (#87)
  Play with clay in a pottery class (#58)   Light your lamp at a oating lantern festival 
  Have an classic video games competition (#59)        (#88)
  Eat breakfast foods for dinner (#60)   Seek out a waterfall in your area (#89)
  Leave your cell phones at home during date   Pick a DVD from the bargain bin and watch it 
       night (#61)        (#90)
  Rearrange the furniture in one of your rooms   Have a couples board game night (#91)
       (#62)   Hold hands while going around a roller skating 
  Travel virtually to another country while at        rink (#92)
       home (#63)   Skip rocks in a shallow stream or lake (#93)
  Explore the sea life at a local aquarium (#64)   Pamper your feed and get a pedicure (#94)
  Play each other at a game of billiards (#65)   Stroll around a botanical ower garden (#95)
  Go on a late night mountain hike (#66)   Travel back in time and attend a Renaissance 
  Order all your dinner food from the appetizer        Faire (#96)
       menu (#67)   Create a “Date Night Bucket List” (#97)
  Paint a wood project at a craft store (#68)   Build a plastic model kit (#98)
  Play a few married couple intimacy games (#69)   Pick out a greeting card for each other and send 
  Setup a water bottle bowling alley in your home        it in the mail (#99)
       (#70)   Guess how many stairs are in a tall building and 
  Explore the hidden wonders inside a cave (#71)        then count them (#100)
  Watch a baseball game (#72)   Download our list of 101 date ideas and pick 
  Eat dinner inside an igloo dome (#73)        some you want to do together (#101)
  Throw a perfect shot playing Frisbee golf (#74)

www.DateEveryWeek.com



Amazing ideas for couples to do on date night 
 

 
I am constantly hearing from the couples I counsel that they need more creative 
things to do on their dates. That they end up talking about and discussing work, 
kids and even their problems on dates due to not having something to do…So, I 
put together this list that will hopefully help them reconnect with each other. 
 
There are some very creative ways to choose which one to do. One idea that was 
told to me by a client was to get two different Popsicle sticks. One color will be for 
dates that are at home the other for dates outside of the house. You could also do 
free and costs money. Then, go through the list and put the number of the date on 
the color of Popsicle stick that it goes with. Get a mason jar, bucket or something 
to hold all of these sticks. Decide which color you will choose from and then 
randomly pull one out. Surprise, you now have an amazing date!!! 
 
 
1. Wine tasting- the other kind!  Try reds before? Try whites this time! (Substitute 
chocolate for wine if you’re a non-drinker.  Go whites, darks, milk, and salted 
chocolate and hit all varieties). 
 
2. Fact or Fiction: Pick a subject you love, make up three facts and one “fiction” 
about it and let the other guess which one is fiction. 
 
3. An amusement park. The thrill and adrenaline rush from the rides will make 
an interesting treat. 
 
4. Go bowling. 

5. The Bookstore Date ~ This Bookstore Date is perfect for any couple. This blog 
has planned the whole date out for you with free printables and everything.  Plus, 
the entire evening is F-R-E-E! 
 
6. 80s Movie night.  Pick a 80’s movie neither one of you have seen before. 

7. Make a really complicated dessert; one with a million ingredients.  Save it for 
breakfast.  Or eat it all in bed. 

8. Plan a vacation- A really extravagant one, that you would never take or at least 
can’t take right now.  Open up your fantasies and escape the reality of diapers and 
stomach viruses for a while. 

9. Play cards- Set a timer or a score and see who gets there first.   
  
10. Visit the zoo… seriously! It’s fun! 

11. Go dancing, even if you both are bad at it. It’s not so bad to look like fools 
together. 

12. Go to the drive-in theater. Grab some blankets, snacks and your honey and 
head to the Drive In! Yes, we do still have some in Colorado. Go to 



http://www.drive-ins.com/theaters/co to find a place close to you and to see 
what shows are playing. 
 
13. Playground date.  Slides are exciting. Monkey bars are fun. Swinging side by 
side is totally awesome, and you can have a contest as to who can swing higher. 

14. Go to a comedy show. It always great to laugh together.  

15. Go to a local musical and then out for dessert or coffee to talk about your 
favorite types of music or discuss what you just saw. 

16. Watch the sunrise and sunset in the same day. 

17. Explore a winery. Go here to find out where one is in Colorado. 
https://www.colorado.com/activities/wine-wineries 

18. Go on a historical tour of your town together. 

19. Take a ride on a hot air balloon! 

20. Build a campfire- use a fire pit if you have to. Roast marshmallows and talk.  
 
21. Go to a murder mystery dinner. 
 
22. Have an extravagant brunch at 8am Get dressed up and do breakfast 
properly. Boutique hotels often do a brunch, but googling should set you on the 
right track too.  
 
23. Go bird watching. There's something awfully romantic about being almost 
alone in the woods, quiet except for the sound of a far-off mating call. See if your 
local park offers tours, or head into your own backyard. "Don't worry about 
binoculars and equipment your first time out," advises Bob DeCandido, PhD, who 
runs birding tours in New York City's Central Park. "Just pay attention to the 
colors and the songs and see if you like it." Or, merely use it as an excuse to get 
lost in the woods and engage in a wild make out session. 

24. Play a childhood game. Order pizza, uncork a bottle of wine (or crack open a 
soda) and play old-school card or board games. Think Life, Battleship, Mall 
Maddness. 

25. My old neighborhood date.  Walk around the area you used to live, and tell 
your date about where you used to ride your bike, what happened on that one 
lawn, which house was best to hit up on Halloween and who the really creepy 
neighbors were. 
 
26. Head on a (mini) road trip. Choose a cool or quirky destination about an hour 
or so away from your home and head there. It could be a new store, it could be a 
flea market, or it could be a restaurant, but the drive itself is an awesome way for 
you to discuss what's going on in your lives. To make the trip more exciting, think 
about renting a great car you both would love being in. 



 

27. If the fair is in town, go for a ride on the Ferris wheel and stop for some cotton 
candy. The top of the Ferris wheel is the ideal place for true feelings to come out, 
and not only because it's an awesomely dramatic movie shot, research has found 
that adrenaline-spiked activities mimic the feeling of falling in love. When you're 
with your guy, those butterflies can be transferred from your feelings about the 
ride to your feelings about him. 

28. Build a fort of blankets, sheets, and couch cushions for your kids to enjoy in 
the morning.  Test it out yourselves that night. 
 
29.  Do a crossword puzzle together. 
 
30. Outdoor water balloon fight- It gets hot in the Summer around here. You can 
also use squirt guns. 
 
31. Read the newspaper - Another thing that’s missing from life with small 
kids.  Spread it out.  Read out loud. Find something the other would get really 
passionate about.  
 
32. Sporting events are always fun. Try to go to one for every sport. That’s a 
bunch of dates right there. 

33. Penny Jar Dates ~ You don't have to spend any money to create a romantic 
atmosphere.  Built a blanket fort, add some twinkly lights and blankets.  And, 
spend the night exchanging love letters, talking and falling in love all over again. 

34. Bring half an evening One person organizes the food, and the other organizes 
a movie, or one person organizes tickets to an amusement park, and the other 
plans a walking tour. Very collaborative!  
 
35. Sign up for dance classes together. Swing, Tango, Waltz? 
 
36. Take a brewery tour. Yes, you'll learn something, but you're also likely to get a 
token for a free beer for your troubles. Bonus: the tour aspect takes away any 
residual guilt about drinking during the day. Find one by calling a microbrewery 
in a city near you. These tours don’t require you to drink beer either. Some places 
offer soda instead of beer at the end. 

37. Venture into the kitchen. Choose the menu and try cooking different things. 
Work together on this. 

38. Sign up for a mud run or color run. Dirt — and lots of it — is the pervading 
theme at these non-competitive fun runs spouting up around the country. They 
often require you to work in tandem, which is an awesome way to bond. To find 
one in your area, log on to Active.com. 

39. Trivia night. Find a place that does trivia. Have a drink together and laugh 
about how much (or little) you know. 
 
40. Jump on a trampoline. You don’t have to own one either. There are lots of fun 



places that have trampolines for everyone to jump on. 
 
41. Spend the night by the fireplace. Start a fire, turn off the lights, and talk with 
your partner until there's only embers. 

42. Head to the opera. There's something so sexy about dressing in your absolute 
best as you watch a performance in a darkened theater. Bonus: If either of you 
are veterans, you can often get free tickets to local events. Check vettix.org to see 
any offered in your area. 

43. Meet for drinks at a local landmark. Iconic locations lead to even more iconic 
moments. Toast the fact that you're already living your happily ever after and 
admire the view. 

44. Plan a picnic. 
 
45. Go to the aquarium. 
 
46. Take a pottery class. 

47. Make pizza at home. It’s a comfortable place and an easy meal to prepare. Go 
to the store together and pick the toppings. Or, have a contest, who made the best 
pizza. 

48. Go to an art gallery on a Saturday afternoon You’ll learn a lot about the 
person you’re standing next to if you go and check out art together. Plus it gives 
you something so much more stimulating to talk about than the last episode of 
The Bachelor! 
49. Hit the open water. Plenty of boat tours are offered through daily deal sites 
like Groupon and LivingSocial; look for a sunset one for ultimate romance 
potential. 

50. Go to the piano bar 
 
51. Go home camping- Put your tent up in your yard, or even your den. Spend 
some time in there.  It’s a getaway, without going anywhere. 
 
52. Play some putt-putt mini golf. Or if you both are good enough, go to a real 
golf course.  

53. Over lunch in a quiet place, play cards and Truth or Dare at the same time. 

54. Video game arcade date. This isn’t always a perfect match, especially when it 
comes to girls in high heels and those weird shoot-em-up zombie games. Or 
whatever. (How impressed would you be by a drop-dead gorgeous girl kicking 
immense zombie butt, though?) But everyone likes air hockey. Don’t they?! 
 
55. Celestial seasonings tour 
 
56. Play strangers in your own town. Sspending an afternoon exploring a nearby 
city (having lunch at a cool bistro you've never been to because it's full of tourists, 



taking a walking tour of a local cemetery, or having your picture taken together 
by a town landmark) is a great way to see your world — and each other — in a 
whole new light. 

57. Fondue night. Gather your favorite cheeses, chocolates and whatever else you 
may want to eat. 

58. Spend the night creating your couple bucket list. Think of things you would 
want to do together. 

59. Fulfill your bucket list. In one day, see how many things you can get crossed 
off your list. You could also make each one of these a date. Be creative and have 
fun. Taking the time to do the things you've always wanted to with each other 
helps further anchor your relationship and commitment to each other. 

60. See a musical. 

61. Stargaze. It's so classic that it's almost a cliché, but spending the night outside 
is so romantic I couldn't resist including it. The best way to stargaze is to actually 
know what you're seeing, so download The Night Sky app. That way, you can 
actually be confident you're looking at the Big Dipper before you abandon all 
pretenses and just make out. 

62. Take a cooking class together. Many of the most popular cookware chain 
stores, such as Sur La Table and Williams-Sonoma, offer these two-three hour 
classes in the evenings. Sur La Table even has special Date Night classes, with 
names like: "Tuscany for Two," "Spicy Latin America," "Parisian Romance." Just 
Google "cooking classes." 
 
63. Indoor picnic. It is what you make it. 
 
64. Laser tag. 
 
65. Strip scrabble!!!- Yeah, I said that.  I bet you expected it for cards, 
huh?  Double Word Score- other player loses two items, triple word score? Game 
Over. 
 
66. Game tournament- Yhatzee, wars, whichever!  Keep a year-long journal of the 
winner. 
 
67. Learn to play Guitar!  (Check out yard sales and grandmas attic.) Learn and 
practice some chords. Make up songs together if you can’t play real ones. 
 
68. Go to a museum and take the full tour. 

69. The really long one-way walk. No rules except that you just have to walk for a 
really long time in one direction and not turn around. When you’re really 
exhausted, it’s time to go back. Catch a taxi or a bus or something to ease the 
pain. 
 
70. Karaoke! I love karaoke. I love karaoke. I love karaoke. Again, it’s a great way 
to get to know someone — you’ll instantly know how outgoing they are, how 



much they like a challenge and what their music taste is like. Plus, usually in my 
experience. 
 
71.  Sneak into a rooftop pool They often have them at hotels, but they are usually 
only open to guests, so you might have to use your best sweet-talking skills, but it 
will be totally worth it if you can swing it. My suggestion? Just act as if you’re 
supposed to be there, and them questioning you is really just a waste of your 
time. Be charming but efficient.  
 
72. Ice cream tour. 
 
73. Take a DJ class. Plenty of DJ academies are springing up around the country, 
so run a Google search for one in your area and schedule a lesson for you and 
your guy. Your  iTunes will never be the same. 

74. Brew your own beer. You could drive to the supermarket for a six-pack, but 
what's the challenge in that? Brewing beer at home has gotten really popular in 
the past few years, with ready-to-go kits available online at Williams-Sonoma and 
on Amazon. 

75. Head to the local nursery. More and more greenhouses are opening up cafes 
and gift shops, which make the destination more than just a place to buy mulch. 
Not only that, but walking around brightly colored flowers — especially when it's 
still freezing outside — can help influence your moods. 

76. Head to the spa. Even a metrosexual dude with a shelf full of grooming 
products can get intimidated by the idea of the spa, but done right, a visit can be 
an awesome way to unwind. Ask for side-by-side facials, body treatments, or 
massages, To make the most of the day, look for a facility with complimentary 
amenities like a dry sauna or a mineral pool. And don't be afraid to ask for a day 
pass, which means you'll be allowed to hang out and spend the day chilling after 
your service. Ahh-some. 

77. Horseback riding. 
 
78. Indoor (or outdoor) skydiving. 
 
79. Take a hike- and bring your date along! 

80. Meet for breakfast instead of dinner- then you have the whole day to plan 
together. 

81. Fake anniversary- Buy a gift, wrap and share it.  Who says you can’t have two? 
 
82. Go skating, even if you aren’t good at it. It’s a great way to remember your 
junior high school days and laugh if you both fall. 

83. The Case Of The Mystery Band. Grab a copy of your local newspaper or 
magazine, close your eyes, run your finger over the “live music” section & choose 
a band neither of you have ever heard of to go & see. It could be amazing; it could 
be completely hellish — you won’t know until you go! But even if it’s shocking, it’s 



definitely a bonding experience, and maybe even something to tell the children, 
eh? 
 
84. Take a trendy workout class. Even if he's a treadhead and you're a die-hard 
spinner, there are plenty of classes that allow you to meet in the middle. For 
example, Crunch gyms nationwide offer a class called SurfSet, where workouts 
are done on surfboard-like contraptions on springs, while the super popular — 
and hardcore — CrossFit phenomenon has drop-in rates for people who want to 
try the workout without committing to a gym. 

85. Go to a play. 
 
86.  D-Bar Desserts 1475 E. 17th Ave., Denver, CO.  Does your sweetie have a 
sweet tooth? This upscale dessert and wine bar, owned by Keegan Gerhard, one 
of the nation's top pastry chefs, is just the ticket, with a menu filled with sinful 
treats like Cake and Shake (3-layer chocolate cake, manjari frosting, and a vanilla 
or chocolate milk shake or malt) or a Chocolate & Hazelnut Sitting in a Tree 
(chocolate souffle, chocolate sauce, Nutella beignets, and praline ice cream). 
Need we say more? 
 
87. Go and listen to jazz .Aka, pretend to be sophisticated. Or actually be 
sophisticated, depending… 
 
88. Have a contest on who can make the best candy gram. Go to 
www.thedatingdivas.com for more information. 

CANDY GRAM POEM MATERIALS: 
  Candy Bars (I found a BUNCH of my candy at the dollar store.) 
  Poster Board (at Michael’s or ANY Craft Store) 
  Heavy-Duty tape or glue (to attach the candy to the poster) 
  Permanent Marker 
  Download (Yep – you pretty much LOVE us, huh!) 
More Info: SO – running around trying to find all the right candy bars probably 
took the LONGEST out of everything I planned! I would definitely try the Dollar 
Stores FIRST. I purchased a lot of my candy bars 2 for $1. Also – we typed up two 
different versions of the candy gram poems, one is catered more towards my own 
husband and I (included in the download to give you inspiration) and the other 
one is JUST as cute but more generic, so it could fit any couple. Click on the 
“download” above to print off those poems for an example. 
 
89. A relaxing Bubble Bath together! Make sure you SET THE MOOD first! 
Relaxing music, candles, magazines, and DON’T forget to sprinkle rose petals on 
top of the bubbles! More Info {AKA Tips}: One thing I recently read regarding 
bubble baths was… DRUMROLL please… that if you put Coconut Milk in it, your 
skin will be silky smooth when you get out! You can buy it at your local grocery 
store and I am DEFINITELY trying it! 
About the Rose Petals, I think it’s SUPER dreamy to have them EVERYWHERE 
and when I called the flower shop inside Albertson’s, I found out that you can 
order an entire bag of rose petals for $4.99 (petals off of a dozen roses). The 
florist informed me that the closer it gets to V-Day, the higher the price gets. The 
bags will go up to $6-$7.  



 
90. THE LOVE HUNT!! It’s basically a treasure hunt but in order to get each clue, 
there is a TASK your spouse will have to complete, such as: 
  Dance with you for an ENTIRE romantic song. 
  Kiss you like you’ve NEVER been kissed before. 
  Feed each other chocolate-dipped strawberries. 
The first clue is given to your sweetie – no strings attached… and then when they 

find the second clue, things start to get FUN! The rest of the clues come with a 
price! They are inside envelopes… and on the OUTSIDE of the envelopes are 

tasks that have to be completed before reading the clue inside. These clues should 
work for the majority of households and we even have blank clues/task cards in 

case you want to make up your own. The last clue will lead to the bedroom… 
however; we also came up with an optional last clue that leads to the laundry 

room where you can leave a fun surprise or present. 
LOVE HUNT MATERIALS: Go to www.thedatingdivas.com for more 
information. 
  Clue – BLANK (In case you want to make up your OWN clues!) 
  Clues – FILLED OUT (They may be a little cheesy… you’ve been warned!) 
  Task Download – BLANK (In case you come up with even MORE creative 

tasks.) 
  Task Download – FILLED OUT(Yes – KISSING is involved!) 
  Sparkling Cider & 2 Wine Glasses (Ya know, to go with your pasta dish!) 
  Chocolate-Covered Strawberries (Um…yeah…seriously SO romantic!) 
  Love Mix CD or ipod playlist (Ideally you would want Love Songs on there 

that MEAN something to you two.) 
More Info: You may want to hide the clues before beginning the entire evening, 
one less thing to worry about once you’ve started the evening. Make sure you 
have the CD already in the cd player OR your ipod plugged into the speaker 
beforehand… and ready to go. I’d also suggest preparing the strawberries ahead 
of time, maybe even the night before. They should keep OK in the fridge 
overnight. One tip for melting the chocolate, make sure you use a double-boiler 
so you don’t burn the chocolate and if you don’t have one, then you can make one 
by filling a medium saucepan 3/4 full with water. Then rest a saucepan or a heat-
proof bowl inside of it and fill it with your chocolate chips. Turn the stove on low 
heat and stir occasionally.  
 
91. Go camping and enjoy the solitude of nature and each other’s company. 
 
92. Do something neither of you have done before. Pottery class? Swing dancing 
lessons? Hiring a moped & driving out into the country? Who knows, but it’s nice 
to share an experience that is new to both of you! 
 
93. Visit an art gallery event and dress up for the event, which will also impress 
your date on how well you clean up. 

94. Find a secluded place with lots of sidewalk and concrete and color it in with 
chalk art. 

95. Have your caricatures drawn by a street artist. What better way to see how 



cute you two are together? 

96. Build a time machine box and burry it in the backyard. Decide how long you 
want to wait until you unbury it. What will you put in there? 
 
97. Take cameras and explore an abandoned place An excellent opportunity to be 
artsy-fartsy, or if you like to be on the other side of the camera. 
 
98. Have a five-course dinner… at different places Have an appetizer at one place, 
soup somewhere else, a main here, a dessert there, and coffee at your favorite 
café 

99. Ride a bicycle built for two. 

100. Fly kites. 

101. Go boating. 

102. Go to a concert. 

103. Volunteer together. Pick a place that you would like to do some service at.  

104. Geocaching. Geocaching is the real-world treasure hunt that's happening right 
now, all around you. There are 2,351,947 active geocaches and over 6 million geocachers 
worldwide. Go to http://www.geocaching.com to find out more. 

105.  The Ten Dollar Gift Date Night Challenge. You each get 30 minutes to buy 
each other a gift with a ten-dollar bill. Whoever gets the most creative gift is the 
winner!” 
 
106. Attend a painting class. 

107. Go strawberry picking or visit an apple orchard. 

108. Paint ball. 

109. Collaborative art date. Get a canvas or even just a big piece of paper, some 
paint, pencils or pastels, & go nuts. 
 
110. Take a train ride. 

111. Go to the airport and get the soonest, cheapest flight and go on a day or 
weekend trip. 

112. Go to a convention of a like-minded hobby or interest. 

113. Go to the beach/reservoir/lake for some relaxing time in the sun together. 
Rent some jet skis or boats for more fun. 



 

And for extra fun with friends, a few group date ideas… 
1.  Couple’s Minute to Win It Games ~ Who says Valentine’s day romance has to 
mean candle light and dinner for two.  Invite your favorite couples to play fun 
couples minute to win it games and see what loving couple will come out the 
victor.  Laughter can be romantic too. 
 
2. Amazing Race – Valentine Addition {group date} ~ Some friends and I put 
together this crazy group date for our husbands for Valentine’s Day, one year, 
after they had sent us on a crazy video scavenger hunt the year before (so they 
could cook us dinner). I’m going to just give you the details of our date. I’m sure 
you can come up with clever ways to adapt it for your circumstances, if you and 
your Valentine like a little adventure with your romance! 
 
3. Creative Bowling:  Go bowling, but take a list of conditions that people have to 
draw out of a hat each time they are up.  For example, they may have to bowl 
backwards, in high heels, without separating their knees, while kneeling, without 
walking, doing a tap dance, on their tip toes, etc. – you could even make it so they 
have to pull two or three conditions!) 

4. Funky town date. Go to this website to get all the cool details. 
http://www.thedatingdivas.com/tara/the-funky-town-date/ 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 



Downloadable 
Date Nights to 

Strengthen Your 
Marriage

© 2015 Dr. Greg and Erin Smalley
Exerpt from Crazy Little Thing Called Marriage



Date Night  
Secret #1

One secret to maintaining romance in your marriage is to make a commitment to having one date a 
week. That’s just you, your spouse, and an idea for fun. Erin and I usually also make time to share a meal. 
Preferably, you and your spouse should get away from the house and any distractions. But if an hour 
alone at home after the kids are asleep is all you’ve got, then make it work.

A date night should also include a short list of topics for discussion—and we don’t mean household 
business like who’s going to take little Morton to the dentist or whether you should put eggshells in the 
compost heap. We mean relationship topics that are presented in the form of questions like these: What 
attributes do you appreciate most about me? What dreams do you have for the next decade?

Commitment Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to increase the commitment level of your marriage.
In honor of Chinese general Sun Tzu, author of The Art of War, cook a Chinese meal together, or buy 

Chinese food at a sit-down restaurant, take-out chain, or at the grocery store.

Each spouse is to ask the following questions to the other spouse:

What was the most important part of our wedding vows?
What do you love about your marriage? List your favorite aspects of your marriage relationship.
What things do you see that demonstrate you have “burned the boats” and are committed to you?
What was most difficult about “burning the boats” for you?

Got More Time?
Watch one of these movies or select one of your own that reflects a theme in this chapter. If you’re 

unsure if these selections are right for you, check out the movie reviews at Focus on the Family’s Plugged 
In website (www.pluggedin.com).

The Song—lifelong commitment
Les Miserables—sacrificial love
The Spy Next Door—marriage is worth fighting for, even if you’re a spy

Plan for Romance
Bring home a souvenir from your date night as a memento. It could be the take-out menu, chopsticks, 

or a fortune from inside an almond cookie. While you drive home, brainstorm a dream vacation or a 
special date. Later, budget to set aside some cash—ten dollars a week or more—so you can go somewhere 
or do something special for your next wedding anniversary. Keep the cash or a slip of paper with a run-
ning total written on it in a jar. Glue the memento to the jar so you have a visual reminder of your plans. 
Spending money on your marriage shows that you honor it.

1



Date Night  
Secret #2

In honor of the first nuclear chain reaction, which took place at Stagg Field, University of Chicago, dine 
on the best Chicago-style pizza you can bake or buy. During the date, discuss the ways you like to best relate 
to God. The goal is to understand how each of you uniquely connects spiritually with the Creator.

To help you out, we’ve listed nine spiritual love languages that are outlined in the book Sacred Path-
ways by Gary Thomas. See which of these match your style. 

The Naturalist who is most inspired to love God out-of-doors by being in a natural setting.
The Sensate who loves God with the senses—through awareness of taste, smell, touch, sight, and 

sound.
The Traditionalist who loves God through ritual and symbol.
The Ascetic who prefers to love God in solitude and simplicity.
The Activist who loves God through contributing toward justice and the enhancement of life in the 

world.
The Caregiver who loves God by loving others.
The Enthusiast who loves God with mystery and celebration.
The Contemplative who loves God through contemplation.
The Intellectual who loves God with the mind.

Got More Time?
At home, list the “spiritual giants” in your life. Those wonderful folks can be obscure people only you 

know, a relative, or a friend. But each of you must also list at least one contemporary Christian leader who 
has influenced you. Find a YouTube clip of that person and watch it together.

Plan for Romance
Pick a special spiritual event to attend—a church service out of your city, a couples retreat, a Christian 

concert, an apologetics seminar, a prayer hike—and plan to stay overnight in romantic accommodations, 
even if it’s your bedroom that has been spruced up and the kids are taken care of somewhere else. Keep 
track of your spiritual insights and discuss them together the next morning.

2



Date Night  
Secret #3

We suspect that when you first started dating you talked till the wee hours of the morning. You 
couldn’t wait to share the news of the day with your future spouse. But as the years ticked away, you de-
cided the menu had changed. You could wait hours, days, or weeks to talk. Well, snap out of that mindset! 
This is the season to talk and share and delight in each other as never before.

Communication Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to increase the communication level in your mar-

riage.
Make “Talk-Os” or go out to a Mexican restaurant and order some tacos you normally wouldn’t. With 

each ingredient, pick the first letter and say something you know about your spouse that begins with that 
letter sound. If you order or make fish tacos, for example, the ingredients would likely include fish, batter, 
cabbage, mayonnaise, pepper, and corn. You’d tell your spouse something like this: “F stands for your fa-
vorite pair of shoes, which are the Clark’s tennis shoes. B is for your brother, who makes you worry. You 
wish he wouldn’t drink so often.”

Cue up the YouTube clip, “It’s Not about the Nail,” watch it together, and share if you’ve been in 
either spot. Talk about “what the nail might be” in your marriage. This is the link: www.youtube.com/
watch?v=-4EDhdAHrOg.

3



Date Night  
Secret #4

A date night should be fun for both spouses. Make sure you’ve crossed off enough to-dos on the chore 
list so you can relax. If that means waiting to go out for dessert on a Saturday night, then so be it. It’s 
important to have your hearts and minds clear to focus on each other.

Fighting for Peace Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to improve your ability to keep open hearts.
Go to a place that serves “comfort” foods such as meatloaf and mashed potatoes or chicken and dump-

lings . . . or whatever emotionally satisfying pile of carbohydrates fits the bill.

Each spouse is to ask the following questions to the other spouse:

Was your mom a Fighter or a Flighter? What about your dad?
Who is someone you know who handles conflict in a healthy way?
What do you identify as our first fight, and how could we have handled it differently?

Got More Time?
Watch a classic romance movie set during wartime in which the couple argues a lot. Ask each other 

what the main characters’ hot buttons or pop-ups are. Some good choices include Gone with the Wind, 
Casablanca, or The Patriot. (Remember to check Focus on the Family’s Plugged In website (www.
pluggedin.com) for movie reviews of newer releases to make sure they are appropriate for you and your 
spouse.)

Plan for Romance
Decide to revisit and talk through one of your more manageable fights. Work on the conflict resolution 

skills taught in this chapter . . . then kiss and make up.

4



Date Night  
Secret #5

No one wants to be on a date with someone who talks negatively about other people. Learn to honor 
all in your speech, not merely your spouse. When you date your spouse, don’t complain about your boss, 
coworkers, basketball buddies, best friends, mothers, or your kids’ teachers. Don’t talk about them, and if 
possible, don’t even think about them. Honor your spouse by providing him or her with your undivided 
attention and a positive attitude.

Honoring Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to help you see the value of your marriage partner.
To tip your hat to Starbucks and having a “special something” relationship, plan ahead to make a hot 

drink part of your meal together.

Ask each other the following questions:

What was the first thing you respected or admired about me?
What is one thing I’ve done for you that has made you “warm up” to me?
One a scale of 1 to 10, how much did your parents honor each other? How did their attitudes affect 

your view of marriage?

Got More Time?
Gather some nice paper and markers or colored pencils. Begin to list the positive traits of each other. 

Your goal should be at least one trait or memory for each year you’ve been married. Newlyweds should 
strive for at least five.

Plan for Romance
Hebrews 3:14 speaks to the honor of marriage and the importance of the “marriage bed.” While you’re 

on your date, plan something that will put that “something special” into your sex life or the atmosphere of 
your bedroom.

5



Date Night  
Secret #6

Sometimes your spouse needs to know a date is all about him or her. Be sure that you don’t aim for 
win-win dates every week, compromising so that each of you is half-pleased with the choice. Every once 
in a while, you should sacrifice a night and do what your spouse wants to do, even if it’s not your favorite. 
(Scratch that; do it even if you’d rather contract a tapeworm!) Make him or her feel pandered to, catered 
to, as if his or her wants are the most important thing in the world to you.

Nourishing Date Night
Plan ahead on how to work some nourishing Superfoods into a meal either at home, health-food store 

salad bar, or at a restaurant. Choose from wild-caught salmon, grass-fed beef, avocados, sweet potatoes, 
kale, blueberries, broccoli, mushrooms, almonds—go organic if you can.

While you’re dining, discuss the top three “nourishing” actions your spouse already provides for you. 
Affirm him or her in those areas.

Got More Time?
Sometime in the next week, create a list of ways you’d like to be nourished, and ask you spouse to do 

the same. Have your spouse answer the statement: “I feel loved when you—.” You answer the statement 
as well. Set aside an extra thirty minutes in the morning to discuss the lists together. Pick one or two 
things from the list you can do this week to nourish your spouse.

Plan for Romance
Nourishing your spouse includes caring for his or her physical well-being as well as emotional and 

spiritual needs. Set aside resources to learn how to give an energizing foot and calf massage. Choose a 
night and treat each other to a massage. You don’t have to stop at the legs!

6



Date Night  
Secret #7

Spending time together as a family can also bond couples, so this date night idea is for those of you 
who can’t find babysitters or can’t afford one. You’ll grow closer as a couple when you see each other 
being good parents, because those moments build respect. 

So while family dates aren’t great on a weekly basis, every once in a while they’re beneficial. Your 
kids will also get to see what it’s like for a man to treat his wife with respect, and vice versa. And, while 
we don’t recommend you make out, showing affection to your spouse will be a good thing for your kids 
to witness.

Time Date Night
Learn the art of pre-ordering a meal at a fast-food restaurant like Chipotle or a sit-down casual din-

er like Red Robin. Save the phone numbers in your cell phone for the next time you’re in a rush. (This 
doesn’t work as well at nice, elegant establishments where ambiance and top-notch service are part of 
the experience.) You’ll discover that you can save twenty to thirty minutes, which can be the difference 
between having enough time or not.

While you’re dining, discuss your next adventures together as a family or couple to connect. Here’s 
the Smalley go-to list: local hiking, miniature golfing, shopping, going to the discount movie theater or 
renting a video, bowling, or buying a day pass to the YMCA or other recreation center.

Got More Time?
Plan a year’s worth of family together time. Instead of buying gifts for birthdays or holidays, consider 

setting aside the money for a trip or other adventure to commemorate the days. This will teach your chil-
dren how to plan ahead, the joy of anticipation, and the value of family community.

Plan for Romance
Take the next step for the anniversary trip you began saving and planning for in the Commitment Date 

Night. Book the hotel or the plane flight today. Don’t wait till “one day.” That day is today!

7



Date Night  
Secret #8

Embracing Date Night
Try something new and exciting, an activity you’ll both enjoy. Whatever your choice, make sure to 

listen to your spouse and empathize with him or her while you are having fun together. You might want to 
consider a quieter activity, without a lot of distractions and stimulation, a time that affords you the oppor-
tunity to zero in and focus on one another. Convey tenderness toward your mate throughout the evening.

Got More Time?
Talk through some questions in a quiet and romantic spot. Focus on the topic of tenderness. 

Ask things like:

What things do I do that communicate tenderness toward you?
Are there other ways I can communicate tenderness on a regular basis?
Were your parents tender toward each other? How?
Especially after long, tough days, how can we make a real effort to reconnect and show tenderness and 

empathy?

Plan for Romance
Dim the lights. Light a scented candle or two. Whisper “sweet nothings” in your spouse’s ear. That’s 

an old-fashioned phrase, but it’s still romantic today. What words of praise and love will mean the most to 
your loved one? Get up close and personal and whisper in each other’s ears. 

8



Date Night  
Secret #9

Keep in mind that the two of you are much more than a couple. You are a team! You are working 
toward the same goals, using your strengths and skills to complement each other. Your teamwork reflects 
this truth from 1 Corinthians 12:12: “The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts; and though 
all its parts are many, they form one body. So it is with Christ.” And so it is with your marriage. Be ready 
to spend some time together enjoying the way you work together as a couple and the unique contributions 
each of you makes to your team.

Service Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to help you appreciate the service aspect of your 

marriage.
Think up some exciting, team-based activities to do together. Maybe go bowling with another couple 

and form teams as couples. Or go to a karaoke club and sing a duet together. If you want to stay in, host 
a game night with other married couples. Rather than using the old “guys play the girls” approach, stick 
together as married couples and work as a team. Serve your spouse by putting him or her in the spotlight, 
supporting the strengths of your teammate. Be a cheerleader as well as a team member. Win or lose, have 
fun playing together.

Got More Time?
Choose an activity you enjoy doing together, from going out for a meal to taking a long walk in a spe-

cial place. During your time together, each should make an effort to show extra thoughtfulness and care 
to the other. Focus on being supportive and appreciative of each other, demonstrating gratitude for your 
spouse. Think of a special gesture of love and appreciation you can offer to provide in the week ahead.

Plan for Romance
Make a thank-you card for your spouse; it can be very simple, but it ought to be handmade. Write a 

note that affirms your spouse and thanks him or her for some act of service regularly performed around 
the house. Recognize the sacrifice of time your spouse makes for you in caring for your home. Each of 
you can leave your card on top of the other’s pillow, so you can read them together before going to bed.

If you can’t think of anything to write, find an inspirational teamwork quote like this one on Pinterest: 
“A snowflake is one of God’s most fragile creations, but look what they can do when they stick together.”

9



Date Night  
Secret #10

This chapter talks about the real battle in marriage: keeping your heart open and guarding against 
apathy and hardness. Special time spent together will help you stay connected throughout the challenges 
of life.

Enduring Date Night
Pick out a new recipe, one you’ve never made before. (If you are stuck, go online to find recipe ideas. 

And if you lack confidence in your cooking skills, you can find step-by-step cooking videos on YouTube.) 
Buy the ingredients together beforehand and make that part of the fun. Find the freshest ingredients you 
can. Cook your recipe at home and enjoy it together!

Got More Time?

While enjoying your meal together, discuss the following questions:

Do you like this recipe?
Are there some other recipes we could try together?
How well did we perform as a team on this project?
Were we both open to doing something new?
Did you learn anything about me during this process of making a meal together?

Plan for Romance
Make or buy a delicious dessert, something sticky and gooey. Change into comfortable clothes…

easily washable! Wash your hands, then feed dessert to each other without using spoons or forks. If you 
didn’t get a chance to feed each other wedding cake on your wedding day (or even if you did), now’s your 
opportunity to feed your spouse. Feel free to laugh, and to be messy!

10



Date Night  
Secret #11

Time together can smooth off the rough edges of your relationship, especially during times of stress.

Pearls Date Night
For this date night, honor the shelled animals that create pearls. Visit an oyster bar or enjoy clam 

chowder at a seafood restaurant or at home.

While you’re dining, talk about the following questions:

What makes you feel safe in our relationship?
What was something difficult that led to something good in our married life?
Name one area where you feel you are teachable. What’s one where you need to grow and learn?

Got More Time?
Visit a department store with a jewelry department. Evaluate the difference between the plastic pearl 

necklaces or earrings and the merchandise in the glass cases. Note the sheen, color, size, and price.
While you’re out, tell your spouse the reasons he or she is a treasure to you.

Plan for Romance
Start saving for a piece of jewelry or other jeweled ornament (for example, cuff links, pin, belt buckle, 

or money clip). It doesn’t have to be expensive. Present it to your spouse on his or her next birthday, your 
anniversary, or at a “just because” celebration.

11



Date Night  
Secret #12

Consider going on double dates with other couples at least three times a year. Don’t feel as if you need 
to become best friends with them, because sometimes fellowship depth isn’t there—but look forward to 
it if you do connect. Here’re two ideas to get the night moving: Ask the husband and wife their individual 
stories about their childhoods. Let them choose the restaurant, but add this condition—they have to share 
their “love story” over dinner (how they met, fell in love, the proposal, the wedding, and the honeymoon).

Fellowship Date Night
Choose which kind of couple fellowship you and your spouse would like to cultivate: mentor, peer, or 

mentee. Start calling at least a week in advance and ask a couple that matches your criteria to a double date.

While you’re dining, ask the following questions of the other couple:

Who was in your wedding party? Are you still close to those individuals?
Who or what has influenced your marriage the most?
What’s one piece of marriage advice you can give to us? Or, What’s been the toughest time in your 

marriage that you feel comfortable talking about?

Got More Time?
Plan a short hike or trip to a museum with the couple. Go somewhere you can talk—avoid movies or 

plays unless you have time to chat for an hour afterward.

Plan for Romance
Take that overnight you’ve been planning. Bring your wedding video or photo album so that you can 

watch or read it together. Reminisce about the memorable things that have happened over the course of 
your marriage (your first date, when you fell in love, your wedding, your honeymoon, your first apartment 
or house together). You have an amazing love story. One of the best things you can do for your marriage 
is to reminisce about your life together. Remembering the good times you’ve had in your marriage can 
help strengthen the bond between you and your spouse and draws you closer together. Recalling memora-
ble events also provides hope through the anticipation of similar enjoyable times in the future, helps you 
remember happier times, and helps you keep a positive attitude about your marriage: “Although we’ve 
gone through some hard times, we’ve made it through . . . we’re pretty good together.”

12



DATE IDEAS 
conversationstartersworld.com/date-ideas 

Here we have a list of 200 date ideas, so many that I’m sure you’ll be able to find the perfect date you 
are looking for. Whether you’ve been married for 20 years or this is your very first date, you’ll be able 
to find a date idea that is perfect for you and your date. 

Just remember, everyone’s idea of a fun time is different. So, make sure to choose a date idea that 
both you and your date will enjoy. But not to worry, whether you and your date are into sports, 
science, adrenaline, or peace and quiet we’ve got plenty of date ideas to choose from. 

A great idea is to send this list to your date and have them pick a few they would like to do and go 
from there. 

FUN DATE IDEAS 

1. Take a class for something new 
There are tons of places that have classes. You can often find them at the local library, a community 
college, a community center, or even at a craft store or hardware stores. 

2. Hit up a go-kart track 
Tons of fun even though it can be a little expensive. I’ve never met anyone who went around a go-kart 
track and was bored doing it. Sure, it won’t last all day, but it’s a fantastic add-on activity. Just 
remember to keep it fun and not too competitive. 

3. Go sky diving or bungee jumping 
Sure, it’ll be expensive. But it’ll definitely be a date that you’ll both remember for a long time. Just 
make sure that both of you are game, if your partner isn’t into it, don’t pressure them to do it. 

4. Backyard camping or just go camping 
This one does require a tent and sleeping bags. Leave the phones in the house or the car. Tell ghost 
stories, look up at the stars, play cards by flashlight, talk, and enjoy the lack of distractions. 

5. Join a fun looking meetup together 
There are a lot of meetups these days, and they cover almost every interest. Find one that you think 
you’ll both find interesting and give it a shot. You can search for meetups in “your town/city” on 
Google or see what meetup.com has to offer. 

6. Take a dance lesson 
You don’t need to hit the club to dance, you can take a dance class! Bonus points if you take a dancing 
class with a type of dancing that you both haven’t tried. Just try not to step on too many toes. 



7. Go ziplining 
Always nice to do something that gets the heart pumping. It’s a perfect short date idea if you don’t 
have a full day to have the date. 

8. Do some geocaching 
It’s like hiking plus surprise presents! It can be a lot of fun searching for the geocache together, and 
you might just visit some remarkable places neither of you has been before. 

9. Go bowling 
There is a bowling alley in almost every town and city. Chances are you haven’t been bowling for a 
while. Go give it a shot. If there is an extreme difference in skills you might not want to keep score, 
maybe just make it a learning session. 

10. Drink and write dirty limericks 
This is another short date idea that works really well when you mix it with other date ideas. All you 
need is some booze, a pen, and paper or cell phone, and the rhyming scheme of limericks. 

11. Do yoga together with a twist 
Yoga and booze, yoga outside, hot yoga, naked yoga, all kinds of things you can do to make it more 
interesting. This is another one that is probably best done with couples that are pretty comfortable 
around each other. Also, it’s a little on the short side. But yeah, it can be a blast to take yoga and remix 
it and see if you can make it a fun date activity. 

12. Go horseback riding 
Another one that can get a little expensive. But it’s not a standard date idea, and if you or your date 
has never tried horseback riding, it’s something you won’t forget. 

13. Go to a VR café / arcade 
These are becoming more and more popular. Check on Google maps to see if one has popped up in 
your area. If there is one in your area, check it out together. You can have an action-packed, creative, 
or relaxing date at the VR arcade. This is especially memorable if neither of you has tried a full VR set 
up. 

14. Try metal detecting 
This can be on the expensive side; you can get a decent entry-level metal detector for around $200. 
But if you calculate the cost of dinner at an upscale restaurant and a movie ticket plus snack for two, 
it’s not that far off. And at the end of the date, you’ll have a metal detector! Anyways, it can be a fun 
excuse to walk around and chat and maybe find some cool stuff. Just make sure to take turns. 



15. Have a water gun/balloon fight 
This one is definitely a summertime date idea. Running around spraying each other with water and 
lobbing water balloons can be a great way to have fun and beat the heat. Just make sure to have 
something lined up for when you finish as this is kind of a short date idea. 

16. Go to a local nonprofessional sports game 
Like a high school football game or a little league game. Choose a side to cheer for or cheer for 
opposing teams. Lots of fun and usually quieter than professional sports games. Plus, a lot cheaper. It’ll 
give you a lot of chances to talk, and you’ll be able to support a local team! 

17. Rent a skateboard or longboard and give it a go 
So, this one. This one is a bit risky. It can be a lot of fun no matter what your or their skill level is. But if 
one of you gets seriously injured, well that’s not fun at all. A trip to the hospital does not make for a 
good date. So, choose this date idea with an ounce of caution. 

18. Try on ridiculous clothing/outfits you would never normally wear 
The mall or a thrift store is the perfect place to do this. It can get hilarious really quick. And who 
knows, you might find that you look terrific in an entirely different style than you usually rock. 

19. Play some board games or card games at a board game café or a gaming store 
(they usually have tables set up) 
So, depending on how competitive you both are, this idea can be a little dangerous. (Looking at you 
monopoly.) But as long as you both aren’t taking it too seriously; it can be a blast. Pick out a favorite 
board game or choose a new one that looks interesting. 

20. Go to the nearest amusement park or water park 
Amusement parks and water parks are always a blast, so if you’ve got one not too far away give it a go. 
It’s, of course, better if you can do it on a weekday, but if you both work all week, weekends are 
doable as well. 

21. Find a place with a rock-climbing wall and go rock climbing 
Another fun physical activity you can do together. It won’t be an all-day thing, but it’s great for a short 
date or as an add-on or back-up date. 

22. Play a sport or do an activity you are both horrible at or have never done 
Some possibilities might be table tennis, bowling, badminton, or something similar. Making sure you 
are both horrible at it is vital. You don’t want either one of you taking it too seriously. It should be 
good for a laugh. 



23. Rent a convertible sports car or luxury car and cruise around all day 
This is another one that is on the expensive side. But it’s a lot cheaper than buying a sports or luxury 
car! Just make sure to check the weather before you get the convertible. 

24. Play pinball and switch between balls 
This is more of a short date activity idea. It’s probably not a full date idea unless you both REALLY love 
pinball. But it can be a lot of fun, especially if you try to beat a high score together on the machine or if 
you try out a bunch of different machines. 

25. Use just a compass and a map to get to someplace cool 
Who needs Google Maps? Go old school with a compass and map and test both of your ability to find 
your way to a cool destination. 

UNIQUE DATE IDEAS 

26. Power out date night 
Pretend like there is no power and no charge in your devices. Party like it's 1799! Break out the 
candles and pull out some card or board games or whatever you usually do when the power goes out. 

27. Adult kids party 
Have a kids birthday party for yourselves. With a cake (the sillier, the better), a present for each of 
you, a pinata, pin the tail on the donkey, etc. Basically, whatever party games and decorations you 
want to rock. Because why should kids have all the fun? 

28. Make a homemade pinata together 
This one might stretch over a couple of date nights. Basically, you can plan and start your pinata on 
one date, let it dry, and then on another date, you can decorate it and smash it. It pairs well with the 
above adult kids party idea. Fill it with whatever fun stuff you want. Maybe even each sneak in some 
surprises for each other. 

29. New food night 
Try out some new food items that you have no idea if you will like or not. Grab a bunch of fruit from 
the grocery store that you have never eaten. Grab a bunch of snacks/food/drinks from an 
international food store that you have no idea what they taste like. Have a taste testing night. You 
could also film each of your reactions. 

30. Fancy fast food feast 
Dress in your finest and use your best plates, glasses, and silverware and candles and have a fancy fast 
food meal. It can be at home or in the fast food restaurant. Go super fancy and sophisticated with your 
burger and fries. You could even pair it with a nice box of wine. 



31. Go donate blood together 
This one is a much shorter date idea, but it could easily be added to another date idea. It’s definitely 
not a typical date idea, but giving blood is an awesome thing to do, so why not do it together? 

32. Play fake tour guide/art expert 
Go to a museum or historical location. Pretend to be the tour guide or expert and make up outrageous 
“facts” about the art or the history of the area for your date. Then switch roles. Bonus points if you 
pick up random people for your tours. 

33. Antique shop creativity 
Make up histories for the items, buy old photos and make up identities and maybe put them in a photo 
album, buy an old appliance or machine and try to use it, restore an old piece of furniture. Antique 
stores have a lot of neat stuff in them. You’ll both probably come home with some neat trinkets or 
decorations for your house. Plus, you get to guess what some of the old tools/appliances were used 
for. Lots to talk about and check out in antique stores. 

34. Go fossil hunting 
This one depends a lot on where you live. Some places it’s really easy to find fossils, some areas not so 
much. Look up finding fossils in your area and see where the best places are to look. 

35. Create a new type of dessert together 
Desserts are great for experimentation because if you slap enough sweet stuff together, it will 
probably still taste good. So, let your creativity run wild, make a mess of your kitchen, and get 
decadent with some sweets. 

36. Get some sidewalk chalk and get creative 
Cheap, fun, and good for a laugh. It’s more fun than you’d expect making the concrete and asphalt 
your canvas, even if you are both terrible at drawing. 

37. Find some cool science experiment videos on YouTube and try them out 
Whether they fail or succeed, you are both sure to have a good time trying them out. Just make sure 
to go shopping ahead of time to get all the ingredients and create a playlist of stuff to try. You can 
both choose some videos to try before the date. 

38. Take a factory or brewery or bakery tour 
Sounds like a field trip, but it’s usually pretty entertaining. If nothing else, it’s a date idea that neither 
of you has tried! Plus, if you go for a bakery or brewery tour, you get some tasty samples. 

39. Go to a local fundraising event 
Do a little good on your date and have fun in the process. There are always groups running fundraising 
events, and they can be a lot of fun. 



40. Go foraging for edible plants and berries and make a meal with them 
You’d be surprised how many plants we consider weeds are edible. You and your date definitely need 
to be very open minded for this one, but it can be a fun way to cook dinner together and learn about 
what plants and weeds are edible. 

41. Drive around looking for yard sales and see if you can find any cool stuff 
It’s like treasure hunting! You can find out what kind of stuff they are into and maybe find some super 
cool things for yourself. Plus driving around looking at random people’s stuff leads to some funny 
conversations. 

42. Make a list of missions to accomplish and see how many you can get through 
Some examples might be: buy ice cream from an ice cream truck, find 3 pay phones, get a bull’s eye, 
jump over four benches, etc. You need a little creativity for this date idea, but it’s entirely doable. You 
could also get your date to send some mission ideas as well. This date idea is adaptable and is as fun as 
you make it. 

43. Pretend to be an ultra-wealthy couple, test drive expensive cars or go to open 
houses 
It can be a lot of fun pretending to be someone else. You can make up fake names and backstories for 
yourselves as well. See how well you can pull it off. 

44. Learn about local history and visit some historical spots 
Okay so not everyone is interested in history, but this can be a great way to learn more about your 
town. And you’ll get to travel around to places in your town you might not have visited. You’d be 
surprised how much fascinating history there is in every town and city. 

45. Buy a load of modeling clay and see what you can make 
This is a bit of a short activity, but it’s great for something to do at the park or as an evening activity at 
home with some wine. Let out your inner artist and make some hilarious creations. 

46. Buy some cheap watercolor paint, get a drawing pad, do portraits of each other 
or dueling landscapes 
A great idea if you are both horrible at painting or are both aspiring painters. If one of you is way 
better than the other, it might not be the best choice. If you are both horrible at painting, it can be a 
hilarious way to spend a date. And if you are both good at painting, you get to connect over your love 
of art. 



47. Buy a bunch of seeds and plant them all over in random places, see what grows 
over time 
Sounds weird but can be a lot of fun visiting new places and secretly or not so secretly planting seeds. 
It makes you look at your surroundings in a new way. Plus, it’s very cool when you start seeing the 
plants begin to sprout and bloom. 

48. Paint and build a model you are both interested in 
Any Walmart or Target will have quite a few models for you to choose from. Pick something you both 
like and try painting and gluing it together. If you both enjoy it and it turns out well, maybe you found 
a new hobby. If it turns out terribly, at least you both can have a laugh, and you have a good story. 

49. Go to an old cemetery and look at the graves 
So, this is definitely not everyone’s idea of a good date. And it really should not be your first or second 
date. It’s much better for couples who have been together for a while. But a lot of people enjoy the 
peaceful nature of graveyards and guessing at the stories from the gravestones or trying to find the 
oldest graves. 

50. Buy some Lego kits and put them together 
First off, your date has to like Legos. But if they do, it can be fun picking one out together and then 
putting it together. Perfect for a coffee shop or a trendy bar. 

51. Go to a flea market 
Going to a flea market can yield some interesting treasures. You’ll always see something unexpected at 
a flea market. And you can chat about the items and vendors you see. 

52. Get lost locally, take back roads you've never taken try to find interesting stuff 
that isn't on Google maps 
Turn off the GPS and see if you can get yourself lost in your hometown. Going down roads you’ve 
never been down can feel like an adventure, and you never know what hidden gems you might find. 

53. Go to an auction 
There are all kinds of auctions going on at any point in time. See if you can find an interesting one near 
you. You don’t need to buy anything, but it can be fun to bid on stuff together. Just getting out and 
doing something different can be a lot of fun. 

54. Try your hands at movie / Halloween makeup and watch horror movies 
Go to the local party store, buy some fake blood or Halloween makeup. Spend some time putting it on 
together then curl up on the couch and have a scary movie marathon. 



55. Go to a town hall meeting or another local political session 
Okay, so I was back and forth on whether to take this out or leave it in. But I decided to leave it in 
because I think it is awesome when people get involved in their local politics. Local politics has a big 
impact on your daily life and can be a form of politics you can actually make a difference in. Even if it’s 
just a local town hall meeting or a vote on some local decision. Go check it out. It may be a bit of a dull 
date, but it’s probably a date idea you’ve never done! 

56. Give graffiti a shot but in a legal way 
Watch some tutorials online, then head to the hardware store. Grab a piece of plywood or particle 
board and some spray cans, and you are off to the races. You could also cut some stencils if you 
wanted to go that route. Use the particle board or the plywood as your canvas and have fun. 

57. Rent / buy an instrument and learn to play it together 
If you both aren’t very musically inclined, this can be really hilarious. And if one of you seems to have a 
knack for it, hey new instrument you can take up! It won’t be hard to find some tutorials online, and 
you can spend as much or as little as you want for the instrument. From a kazoo or harmonica to a 
violin or tuba, instruments run the gamut of prices. 

58. Make a time capsule 
This is another unique date idea that will be interesting to some and boring to others. So make sure 
you are both game. After you make sure it’s something you are both interested in, get yourselves a 
waterproof container and fill it with all kinds of cool stuff. Then find some random place to bury it. 

59. Go to a hardware store or a craft store and pick something to make together 
Another creative date idea, the sky is the limit on this one. It might help to find something that one of 
you wants to add to your / their house or apartment and try to make that. 

60. If you both play an MMORPG, an online multiplayer shooter, or some other 
online game you could have a date in game 
Entirely depends on both of you being into gaming, but if you both are, it can be a great date idea and 
a great way to do something you both love. 

61. Brainstorm a new product or business 
Yeah, so this is kind of a weird one. It sounds super boring but can actually be a lot of fun if you both 
get into it. That being said, you and your date need to be relatively creative to pull it off. But if you do, 
you can find out a lot about the other person, what they like, what their skills are, and who knows you 
might come up with a business idea you would like to try. 

62. Find places that are supposedly haunted in your area and visit them at night 
If one of you is easily scared, this might not be the best date idea. But if you are both into horror 
movies and enjoy a good scare, this can be a lot of fun. 



63. Do a themed 5k or fun run type of race 
You can take these as seriously or as laid back as you want. A lot of people just walk them. So they are 
perfect for any fitness level. And there a lot of fun themed races, some have bubbles, some you eat 
during them, some involve getting messy in some way or another. Always good for a date day. 

FIRST DATE IDEAS 

64. Go to a science center if your city has one 
Science centers are usually filled with all kinds of fun, hands-on activities. You might think that they 
are mostly for kids, but what are adults? Kids who got taller. It’ll be fun and exciting. Plus, you’ll both 
have lots to talk about, and you both might just learn something new. 

65. Hit up an art museum 
Whether you are both into art or not, an art museum can be a quiet place to walk around and have a 
conversation. If one or both of you are into art, you can talk about the paintings and what you think of 
them. If you both aren’t into art, you can always play “pretend to be an expert” and make up things 
about the paintings and sculptures. Consistently good for a laugh. 

66. Play some putt-putt 
Chances are you haven’t done putt-putt in quite a while. But, it can be a lot of fun as long as you don’t 
take it too seriously. Never take putt-putt too seriously, it would be way too frustrating. And with a 
name like putt-putt, it’s okay to be a little silly. 

67. Go to a botanical garden 
Quiet and peaceful, botanical gardens are great for strolling around and chatting. Walk around and 
enjoy all the gardening work that someone else did and be glad you don’t have to deal with all that 
upkeep. It’s a great place to talk and get to know each other. 

68. Go see some live standup comedy 
Not the best place for conversation, but hopefully you’ll both get some good laughs at the show. And 
as long as you both have fun on the date, that’s what’s important. 

69. Craft brew tasting 
Perfect if you both like beer. You can do this at a bar that serves craft beers or if you want to save 
some money you can buy individual bottles at a liquor store. 

70. Rent a boat, sailboat, or a paddleboat 
For this one, a body of water is a must. But most towns or cities have a few lakes around. And there is 
a good chance someone is renting out things that float. So, go out on the water and have a good time. 



71. See a play or musical 
Support your local theater scene and check out a play. You won’t be able to talk during the play, but 
then again you can’t talk during movies either. And whether it’s good or bad, you’ll still have something 
to talk about afterward. It’s a great spin on the traditional dinner and a movie. 

72. Catch a sunset 
I highly recommend scouting out a good spot ahead of time, and of course, sunsets are best enjoyed 
with your beverage of choice. You can do a bit of stargazing afterward too, as long as the light 
pollution isn’t too bad. 

73. Play tour guide and take them to your favorite spots 
By being a tour guide, you can share some of the places you really enjoy and see if they enjoy the 
same types of things you do. Plus, you are already familiar with the place so you can show them 
around and make sure they get the best experience possible. 

74. Do some wine tasting at a local vineyard or wine tasting festival 
Always good to support local, and you get some wine in the process! It’s an excellent way to find a 
new wine you like, plus wine has a way of relaxing nerves. 

75. Buy a cheap drone and take turns flying it around and probably crashing it 
You can get a drone for the price of a couple of drinks these days, and they are a ton of fun to play 
around with. I would recommend outdoors away from people, but some drones work okay indoors 
too. Just make sure not to fly it around breakable stuff. Relax and chat while it charges up after you 
burn through the battery. 

76. Do a pub crawl, coffee shop crawl, thrift store crawl, or any other type of crawl 
you want 
Pick a theme, plot some of them on a map, and go! Works well with some of the other date ideas like 
renting scooters or bikes to ride around town. 

77. Go to one of those dinner theater/murder mystery places 
Nothing like dinner and a show. It can be a bit expensive, but if you don’t mind spending a bit more, it 
can make for a fun and exciting date idea. 

SECOND DATE IDEAS 

78. Do some pub trivia 
This one is a fun option if you want some drinks, but don’t want to just sit at the bar together. Now 
you can sit at the bar and try to answer trivia questions! It gives you a lot to talk about, and you can 
find out what they are interested in. Whether you win or lose, it’s still a fun way to spend a couple of 
hours. 



79. Hit up an arcade or video game bar 
Most cities have a video game bar or arcade, and it’s a great way to have some friendly competition or 
some coop gameplay. Just make sure to keep it relaxed and casual. Don’t get all ultra-competitive. It 
might not be the best place for conversation, but it can be a lot of fun! 

80. Head to the zoo 
Zoos are great places to walk around and talk. It’s casual and relaxed, and with so many animal 
exhibits, there is always something to talk about. Just be careful, if you date is morally opposed to 
zoos it might not be a good idea. Or if your local zoo is a bit run down it can be a little depressing. 

81. Take a mini road trip to someplace not too far away 
Research what there is to do in a town close by and choose something you both will be interested in. 
It’s like a super mini vacation to a nearby city. 

82. Go to an escape room 
These are popping up in more and more places. You go into a room and see if you can solve a mystery 
using the clues provided. A lot of fun, and can be a great way to spend an hour or two. 

83. Go ice skating 
If your town has an indoor rink or if it is winter and there is a frozen pond, this is a great date idea. 
Once again, it helps if you are both terrible or both pretty good. But if you are good and your date 
isn’t, you could always try teaching them how to skate. 

84. Hit up a local artist art gallery 
Most towns and cities have at least one art gallery for one or more local artists. Go check it out and 
pretend you are art critics. If there is more than one art gallery, you can hop from one to the other and 
get an idea of the art scene in your neck of the woods. 

85. Find a nearby quirky museum 
There are so many small quirky museums. There might just be a few in your city or town or at least not 
too far away. They can make for fun road trip destinations and can be a lot of fun to walk through and 
check out all the unique exhibits. 

86. See a local band 
It’s always great to support local music, and you never know, you might find your next favorite band. 
It’s not really conducive to conversation, but if you are both into music, it can be a great way to spend 
the evening. 



87. Rent motorized scooters and zip around town 
I would recommend those stand-up scooters/skateboards where you have the controller in your hand. 
A load of fun and a great way to get around. Stop at whichever shops look exciting and make a day of 
it. 

88. Rent bikes and go on a bike trip together 
A lot of cities now have bikes you can borrow, and even if yours doesn’t, there is a good chance your 
local bike shop rents out bikes. Riding a bike around is fun, and even if it’s a bit difficult to chat while 
riding, you can also talk when you stop for breaks. 

89. See what events are happening at the local university or college 
Chances are they’ll have talks, events, fundraisers, etc. that you can pick and choose from. Unless you 
are going to college, it’s unlikely that you’d think to check your local university or college for 
something to do. But most of them have lots of things going on all month that are open to the general 
public. 

90. Do an animal encounter at a zoo, like swimming with dolphins or hanging out 
with a tiger 
So, I know I already mentioned the zoo, but I thought this deserved its own spot. It can be quite 
expensive, but as far as date ideas go, it’s something neither one of you will ever forget. 

91. Find something touristy in your area that neither of you has done and do that 
Most locals never get around to doing the touristy stuff. Find out what is popular in your town on 
TripAdvisor and pretend to be a tourist in your own town. You can even make up fake personas if you 
want. 

92. Shooting range, archery, ax throwing 
Hit stuff with other stuff! Whether it’s a shooting range, archery range, or ax throwing range, it can be 
a ton of fun if you’ve never tried it. And if you have tried it, you can always try to do better this time! 
This is another one that might be a little expensive but can definitely be memorable. 

93. Go to a demolition derby 
This depends highly on where you live and if there are any demolition derbies nearby. But if there are, 
this makes for a really memorable date night. Just make sure to check if it is something your date will 
be interested in. 

94. Redo a field trip you enjoyed as a kid 
We all took field trips as a kid. But when have you taken one as an adult? Go get in touch with your 
inner elementary school self and relive an awesome field trip from the past. 



95. Build and launch a rocket 
They are less expensive than you might imagine, and they can be fun to put together. But the real fun 
part is when you launch them. They are a great project to work on together, and you both can share in 
the experience of launching it. 

96. Take to the skies (helicopter tour, hot air balloon, hang gliding, or just a cheap 
ticket from the local airport) 
This one is expensive and if one of you has a fear of flying definitely give this one a miss. But if you are 
up for spending the coin and enjoy a trip through the skies, this can be a ton of fun. 

97. Paint some pottery 
There are quite a few places, usually at a mall, where you can go and paint some pottery. Then they 
fire them, and you’ve got a souvenir from your date! 

CHEAP DATE IDEAS 

98. Budget mad scientist/inventor 
Assign yourselves a budget of 10 or 20 dollars. Then go to Walmart or the Dollar Store and see what 
awesome contraption you can cobble together using only the things you bought with your budget. 
Creativity meets crafts. It’s cheap, fun, and you’ll probably get a good story out of it! 

99. Explore a local national or state park 
Chances are that there are at least a couple of national or state parks within driving distance of you. 
Grab a takeout lunch and go experience what the park has to offer. There’s nothing like getting out in 
nature to soothe the soul. 

100. Rent and beat a game together 
This is a great date idea if you are both gamers. You can rent a game and try to beat it together in one 
marathon session. Just make sure it is either two-player or you both can pass the controller at regular 
intervals. 

101. Get some coloring books and color 
This one is on the super relaxed side. It’ll give you lots of time to talk and can be quite soothing. Just 
make sure it’s something your date will enjoy. You can do it at a park or at a coffee shop. 

102. Go to a car show 
This one can be kind of hit or miss depending on how much you both like cars. But even if you both 
aren’t super into cars, it’s a good excuse to walk around and talk. Plus, if you both have never been to 
a car show, it might be a cool new experience. 



103. Play disc golf 
This hobby often gets overlooked, but it’s fun and relatively cheap to start. And most towns and cities 
have a disc golf course. It’s a fun way to spend the afternoon and gives you something to do while you 
are getting to know each other. 

104. Go to a local festival or fair 
If you live in a smaller town, there might not be so many festivals. But if you live in a bigger city, there 
are festivals of some type almost every month. Have a look at a city calendar and see if there is a fun 
festival. 

105. Buy a puzzle and hit a coffee shop 
Like the coloring date idea, this one is really relaxing. And there is a lot of time to talk and get to know 
each other. You just have to make sure that your date likes puzzles rather than finding them dull. 

106. Jump in the water 
This one is kind of seasonally dependent. Going swimming in the winter is not so fun. But there are 
usually indoor pools as well that you can try. Just make sure your date likes swimming / can swim. You 
can hit up a lake, community pool, or even buy some cheap kiddie pools. 

107. Origami somewhere nice 
Even if you’ve never tried origami, it’s something you can pick up and start learning. It’s a lot more fun 
with some beautiful scenery. So find yourselves someplace nice and fold away. 

108. Find a place you can make a campfire and make smores. Beers always go well 
with a campfire as well 
There is something hypnotic about watching a fire. It makes for an easy, relaxing conversation. And 
who doesn’t love smores? 

109. Both of you try to learn a skill or trick that doesn't take long to learn 
There are a lot of skills or tricks that don’t take long to learn. Some examples might be juggling, magic 
tricks, rolling a coin across your fingers, lockpicking, etc. You can find lists of things like that on Reddit 
and then find a how-to video on YouTube. 

110. Make a bucket list, talk about all the things you put on yours, steal good ideas 
and brainstorm ideas together 
This is a great “get to know you” date idea. You can find out more about their goals and aspirations 
and see if they match or complement your own. It’s a perfect activity for a coffee shop. 



111. Buy and learn a new two-player card game 
There are a ton of new card games out there that you can buy. Or you can try learning a two-player 
card game with a normal deck of cards. Be ready with another date idea just in case this one runs a 
little short. 

112. Read up on some photography tips and go on a photography date and try to 
take the best photographs around town 
Just pretend like you are art students. Go around town and try to take the best pictures you possibly 
can with your phone camera. Get all artsy and see how it turns out. It’ll be a lot of fun going from place 
to place scouting out shots, and you can both have fun looking over the photos at lunch or dinner or 
over drinks. 

113. Find your new favorite show 
Before the date, both of you should scout out a few candidates, then watch an episode or two 
together and decide yay or nay. If you both give an enthusiastic yay, it’s binge time! This is another 
that works best with couples that have been together for a while. 

114. Be local critics, go to parks or things like that and write reviews 
Become local Google Maps or Yelp stars. Go out, take some pictures, and give out some honest 
reviews together. If you want to save some money, go to places that are free like parks. 

115. Play badminton in the park 
Badminton sets are pretty cheap, and it can be a fun way to spend time in the park. Plus, it is just 
physically challenging enough to be fun but probably not enough to notice if you have differing levels 
of physical ability. 

116. Listen to a podcast or audiobook together someplace nice 
So this is definitely not everyone’s idea of a great date, but a lot of people might enjoy being with the 
person they love, in a nice location, listening to a good book or podcast. Then if you want some talking 
time, you can always pause and discuss the book or podcast. A great idea if you are on a road trip as 
well. 

117. Make some different types of homemade salsa 
After you make the salsa, what else is there to do but to have some margaritas, and taste test your 
salsa with chips. Maybe make it into a taco or nacho night. Loads of different types of salsa to try to 
make to suit all different types of tastes. 



FREE DATE IDEAS 

118. Do some legal urban exploring 
If you live in a city, there are all kinds of interesting buildings, ruins, nook and crannies, and other 
interesting spots perfect for exploration. So if you both have a passion for exploring and live in a city, 
this can be a really cool date idea. Just make sure your date is totally on board, wear appropriate 
clothing, and stay legal. 

119. Go bird watching 
Bird watching sometimes gets called boring, but really, it’s a great way to get outdoors. It gives you a 
reason to wander around in nature. Even if you’ve never done it, there are plenty of online guides out 
there to get started in your area. If nothing else, it’s probably something the both of you have never 
done before. 

120. Go jogging 
If you are both into fitness and jogging, a jog can be a great way to bond over something you both 
love. But this suggestion really only works if you are both into jogging. If just one of you is, or if 
neither of you is, you might give this idea a pass. 

121. Go on a walk through a park 
It’s relaxing, it’s free, it gives you plenty of time to talk. What’s not to love about taking a walk in the 
park on a date? You could bring a frisbee, pack a lunch, and make a day of it. A lot of the other date 
ideas go well with a walk in the park. 

122. Find a beautiful place to skip rocks 
This date idea is a great way to relax while still enjoying nature. You won’t be doing it all day, but it’s a 
great add-on to a trip to a park. 

123. People watch at a crowded location 
Sitting in a crowded place takes the pressure off having a conversation. You can just chat idly about 
this or that. Or you can discuss the people passing by and what their lives might be like. This one is 
really dependent on the person. Some people love sitting and people watching, and some don’t. One 
fun thing to do is create imaginary and fantastical backstories for the people you are watching. 

124. Volunteer somewhere 
Loads of places are looking for volunteers. Have a volunteer date night, and you’ll be doing something 
awesome while getting to spend time with your date. 

125. Learn some Tai Chi 
Relaxing but still difficult. It’s great for your health and wellbeing and can make for a fun and 
interesting date idea. Especially if neither of you has tried Tai Chi before. There are plenty of YouTube 



videos, or you could see if there is a class. This is more a short date idea so try to have something else 
on had to do before or after. 

126. Learn a sleight of hand trick together 
This is kind of a neat one, because who doesn’t like a good sleight of hand trick? Now you can be the 
one pulling quarters from people’s ears. There are plenty of YouTube tutorial videos to choose from, 
just find one that you both like and practice, practice, practice. 

127. Go on a hike 
No matter where you live, there is probably a hiking trail or at least some kind of walking path within 
driving distance. Hikes are great because you can chat while you walk. Plus, you can get out in nature 
and get some exercise. 

128. Go to your local library, rent a book, take turns reading to each other and use 
character voices 
With this one, the sillier it is, the more fun it is. Find an interesting fictional book and create some 
bombastic character voices. You can take turns reading, or each of you does a character. 

129. Get stuff done date 
Okay so this sounds horrible, but it actually can be fun, and it’s definitely productive. Oh, and it’s 
meant mostly for couples who live together. Find some chores or stuff you can do together, blast 
some music, and open up a bottle of wine or a few beers. It’s a way to make getting stuff done a little 
more fun, and you get to spend some time together. 

130. Find a public place with a lot of litter and clean it up 
Similar to the volunteering or giving blood, this one is really uncommon for a date idea. And you have 
to make sure your date will be into it. But if you are both up for it, cleaning up a public space can be a 
rewarding way to spend the afternoon. 

131. Get lyrical and write an original song, bonus points if you can also bust out a 
tune for it and sing it together 
This is a date idea that can be done at a bar or coffee shop, at least the writing can be, you might want 
to do the actual singing somewhere else. It can be a blast collaborating and is a great way to get 
creative. Just make sure to have fun with it and don’t take it too seriously. 

132. Take some trial fitness classes 
Most fitness places have trial classes for free. Give one or two of them a shot. It’ll make for a lively 
date, and you might even find a class that you are really into. 



133. Make some YouTube videos, whether they be instructional, funny, or whatever 
Having a common goal or task can be a great way to have a date. And what better than to make goofy 
videos to put on YouTube. Even if you don’t end up posting the videos, it can be a lot of fun making 
them together and then looking over them. 

134. Both of you download an app/game in which you have to walk or travel around 
the real world to achieve goals in the game 
There are a lot of these games for both Android and iOS. If you search augmented reality games, you’ll 
probably find quite a few. 

135. Pick out workout videos on YouTube and do them together 
Definitely better if you both are into fitness and working out. Doesn’t really work so well if neither of 
you is into fitness or if only one of you is. 

136. Try to take artsy pictures of each other in different locations 
Basically, pretend to be photographers. Everyone appreciates a good picture of themselves. And even 
if neither of you is a professional, that shouldn’t stop you from trying to get some awesome pictures. 
See if you can get some photography tips online before heading out on the date. 

137. Find an interesting neighborhood or suburb and walk and talk 
Whether it’s a super wealthy area or a historic district, find a cool neighborhood and walk around. 
You’ll be surprised at all the details you pick while walking that you might not normally see while 
driving. 

138. Make slow motion videos with your phone 
Most cell phones these days have a slow-motion feature on them. You would be surprised how cool 
everyday stuff looks when you smash it or crush it. You could also do some stunts. A full grown adult 
trying to do something they used to do all the time as kids can be pretty hilarious. Just make sure not 
to get injured. 

139. Go to the nearest airport and get to where you can watch them take off 
You’ll have to find somewhere that isn’t unbelievably noisy. I don’t want you all to be losing your 
hearing. But if you can find a great spot, it really is neat to see these giant tubes of metal defying 
gravity. 

140. Look through very old newspapers or magazines at the library 
Some folks will find this to be super boring, and some will find it extremely interesting. It all depends 
on the person. But it can be really interesting to find out what people 70 or 80 years ago were 
concerned or interested in. You’ll probably find that there are a lot of parallels to today’s news. Plus 
old ads are really cool. Just remember when you are going through them not to get too loud. 



CUTE DATE IDEAS 

141. A book club for two 
Each of you picks a short story, novella, or graphic novel for the other to read, and then you get 
together on the date and discuss them over drinks. This one is an excellent idea if you are both into 
books. But I wouldn’t suggest it unless you are both avid readers. If someone doesn’t read much, it 
might make them feel like they are preparing for a book report. 

142. Do a seasonally themed date 
Do some stereotypical seasonal activities together like building a snowman if it’s winter or going to the 
beach or pool if it’s summer. For fall or spring, you could carve a pumpkin or paint Easter eggs. Have 
seasonal food and drinks after the activity. 

143. Plan the perfect vacation 
This works best if you share a laptop. Otherwise, you end up both looking at your phones or looking at 
your separate laptop. Find a country or countries to visit, choose what you want to do, pick some 
impressive hotels. You’ll be able to see what they find fun and exciting and maybe get some more date 
ideas for next time. 

144. Build sandcastles together (no beach necessary) 
No beach nearby? Not to worry. The hardware store sells play sand. Get some of that, a flat surface, 
some water, a place you don’t mind getting wet and sandy, and you are good to go. You could do a 
full-on beach day away from the beach. 

145. Make matching t-shirts 
So you can either get those iron on ones, or you can get a company to print the designs on a shirt and 
send them to you. But the fun part is designing your shirts. Making them as ridiculous as possible. If 
neither of you has done much digital design, I would recommend checking out Canva for putting the 
images together. 

146. Make masks 
Most craft stores will carry some type of blank masks, but if they don’t, there is always Amazon. Then 
just get together hang out and decorate your masks. You can both do your own thing or have them 
based on a theme. Whatever works for both of you. Don’t worry if they turn out horrible, that’s part of 
the fun. Make sure to get some photos together after you finish! 

147. Do each other's make up 
So this is probably more for established couples looking for creative date ideas. And you have to make 
sure both of you are down for it. But if you do this one, it can lead to some HILARIOUS results. 



148. Bring your SO to work day 
This one is kind of a weird date, and it definitely depends on where you work. But with a lot of 
workplaces, you can show your SO around, and they can see what you do most days. Plus a lot of 
workplaces have some great perks you can take advantage of for a date! This is probably best done on 
your day off but might be cool depending on the job. 

149. Start learning a new language together 
Sure, you could learn some of the more popular ones. But why not try an uncommon language or 
something like Esperanto. It would be great to have a language that you both know, but most of those 
around you don’t. 

150. Buy and read some comic books together 
Again, both of you will at least have to have a passing interest in comic books. But if you both do, it 
can be neat to start a new series that you haven’t read before. Try to pick one that both of you don’t 
know much about. That way, you can both experience it with fresh eyes. 

151. Take turns drawing a picture 
One person draws one part, and then the other does the next part. Or if you want a really interesting 
picture, one person draws until a timer runs out and then the next person goes. 

152. Go get henna tattoos together 
It’s like getting regular tattoos together but a much lower level of commitment. Just be sure that it 
isn’t in a place that will interfere with your job, they last 1 to 4 weeks. 

153. Make a collage 
Test your artist prowess by making a collage, it takes a while and provides you both with a lot of time 
to chat and get to know each other. Plus it pairs pretty well with drinks. 

154. Have an impromptu 4th of July celebration 
Or any holiday really. Make a Thanksgiving dinner for the two of you or wear green and go out and 
have a bunch of beers and bring green food coloring for the beer. 

155. Write a story together 
This is another date idea that is a little bit short but is still pretty fun. Get a piece of paper, you write 
two sentences of a story then pass it to them. Then they write two sentences. And then you write two 
sentences, they write two sentences, and so on. The story gets pretty crazy pretty quickly. 

156. Jump around at a trampoline park or obstacle course 
If your city or town has one of these, they are a blast. A lot of laughs, a decent workout, and a whole 
lot of fun. Just make sure not to get injured. 



157. Go on a scavenger hunt together 
This is a great way to get out of the house and have fun together without spending too much money. 
There are lots of scavenger hunt ideas online, or you can make one customized for you and your 
partner. 

158. Go to a plant nursery and pick out a plant or two 
You can buy a plant or tree together and take care of it or buy one for each of you. It’s a great way to 
have a souvenir from the date. Just try not to accidentally kill it like I do most of the plants I get. Plus 
nurseries have a lot of cool plants, and you can chat as you wander through all the plants. 

159. Go to an aquarium or aquarium store 
Name the fish and make up backstories for them. Create a little imaginary drama for them like they are 
finned day time soap opera characters. 

160. Do a photo booth crawl and make silly photos at every booth you can find 
This one is a spinoff of the “crawl” idea I mentioned earlier and can be a great way to have a lot of fun 
on a date. It’s a perfect excuse to act silly. On the way to the next booth, you can plan out what theme 
you are going to do for your next set. Bonus points if you pick up props for the photos at a dollar 
store. 

161. Find a project on Pinterest or Instructables and make it together 
This works well because it gets you both working together. And once you’ve finished the project, you 
can look with pride on your creation or if it’s less than perfect, you can always have a good laugh. Plus, 
there are so many projects out there you are sure to find one that both of you are excited about doing. 

162. Watch a movie in the park or at a drive-in movie theater 
If there are no drive-ins in your area, make your own. Buy some snacks, find somewhere scenic to 
park, grab a tablet, put it on the dash. 

163. Buy some kites and go fly them, weather permitting of course 
Who doesn’t like flying a kite? And when was the last time you flew a kite? This is one of those rom-
com ideas, but it’ll be fun. Perfect for a trip to the park. 

164. Create a poster for a fictitious band or movie or one for a real one you both like 
This can be a really fun project. Let your imagination go wild and try to make it as funny as possible. If 
you aren’t into digital design, I would recommend Canva to make it easier. It’s free and pretty 
awesome. If you really want to go all out, you can get it printed out at a print shop and put it up. It 
would make a great souvenir of a great date. 



ROMANTIC DATE IDEAS 

165. Get a couple’s massage 
This is one of the more expensive ideas on this list, but they are a great way to relax together and have 
some downtime. Afterward, I’d have something relaxing planned like sitting on a bench near a lake or 
river to continue that chill vibe. 

166. Have an upscale picnic 
Location is key, so scout out a great spot at a local park. Then go all out with some wine (if they allow 
booze), cheese, sliced meats, French bread. Spread out a blanket on the ground or at a table, relax, and 
enjoy being in each other’s company. 

167. Take turns listening to each other's favorite songs 
This date idea works really well for those couples who love music. You can introduce each other to 
awesome music. Nothing bonds people faster than sharing in something that you both love. 

168. Movies from your childhood night 
Find some movies that had a big impact on both your childhoods, pop some popcorn, and enjoy your 
trip down memory lane. It will be a great way to connect on some common ground, and you might be 
surprised at all the things you don’t remember about your favorite childhood movies. 

169. Pillow fort party 
Just like what it sounds, make a pillow fort together. And now that you are adults, you can make it 
even more amazing than the ones you made as a kid. Once inside, do whatever you want, watch a 
movie, have drinks and chat, snuggle, do some gaming, whatever floats your collective boats! 

170. Cook a new recipe together 
Find a recipe for something neither of you has ever made and make it. It’s easy to chat while cooking 
and you get a dinner out of it as well. You can even make shopping for ingredients part of the date. A 
bottle of wine or beers helps the cooking process stay fun. 

171. Meet each in a bar, assume new identities, and try to pick each other up 
This depends a lot on whether you are into role-playing or not. And is definitely more for couples who 
have been together for a while. That being said, it can be a great way to spice things up. 

172. Create your own couple holiday including traditional food and activities and 
then celebrate it every year 
Make your own holiday that is customized to you and your SO. This works better for established 
couples and can be a lot of fun setting up a new tradition. You can even break it up into two dates. 
The first date for planning and the second one for celebrating the holiday. 



173. Pick a restaurant with a type of cuisine that neither of you has tried and give it 
a shot 
This one is a bit of a gamble because you won’t know if you both will like the food or not. But if you 
are both adventurous, it can be a lot of fun experiencing a new cuisine together. And you’ve both got a 
natural topic of conversation to fall back on, the new food! It can lead to a very memorable date. 

174. Star gazing road trip 
Find the area around your town with the least amount of light pollution, bring some pillows and 
blankets, don’t forget the mosquito repellent and enjoy the night sky together. 

WINTER DATE IDEAS 

175. A foreign country-themed date night 
Make that country's food, listen to music from there, drink booze from there, watch a movie or TV 
show from there. It’s a fun way to experience a different country’s traditions. This one works best if 
you pick a country you don’t know much about. 

176. Try to make convoluted cocktails 
This always a lot of fun. You can either try to make some crazy cocktails/shots that have recipes, or 
you can try to make an original cocktail. This one can be expensive if you go all out, but if you find the 
right recipe, it doesn’t have to be too crazy expensive. 

177. Make flip books 
This is another creative date idea that might not fill a full evening, but it is a great way to spend time 
together doing something creative. It’ll take the pressure off talking by giving you both something to 
do, and at the end, you’ll have a fun flip book. You could even put them together so that where one 
leaves off the other person’s begins. 

178. Brew some beer together 
You’ll need a kit or a bunch of equipment for this one, and it can get a little expensive. Also, 
unfortunately, you both won’t get to try the beer you brewed together that day. But then again, that 
could be the next date night. All that being said, though, doing something together is very rewarding. 

179. Pick a recipe, go shopping, and make a dessert together 
Ice cream is a great choice, there are tons of DIY homemade ice cream methods. And it would work 
well with the pick your own fruit date idea. But really any baked good is a great choice. 

180. Attempt to learn calligraphy 
So, attempt is the key word here. You first few tries will probably be a bit laughable, but it’s easy to 
start because there are plenty of video tutorials online and beginner pens aren’t crazy expensive. So, 
give it a shot, be patient, and just remember failures can be as fun or more fun than successes. 



181. Do an Arduino or Raspberry Pi project together 
This one is definitely a bit technical, but it’s easier than you might think. There is a ton of 
documentation out there to help you along and plenty of sample projects to choose from. Perfect if 
you both like tinkering. 

182. Learn the rules of a sport you don’t know much about and watch a game 
together 
You can either watch the sport at a sports bar if there is a game going on or just watch some old 
games on the internet. There are tons of great sports out there that you’ve probably never even heard 
of. 

183. Choose a series of movies that you’ll both enjoy, and have a daylong movie 
marathon in your PJs 
Don’t forget the popcorn! This is a pretty chill date idea for those who like staying at home. Some 
great options for movie series: Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, Avengers, Harry Potter, Die Hard, Bourne 
Identity, and The Fast and the Furious. There are plenty of series to choose from. 

184. Watch a movie you've both seen a bunch and try to make memes from it 
There are so many memes from movies and shows. Pick a movie that you both love and see what kind 
of memes you can pull from it. Post them up in Reddit. Who knows, you might get a few upvotes and 
people might use or adapt your meme. 

185. Write letters to folks who might want them or folks who don't 
Are you both passionate about something? Write a letter to someone who might be able to do 
something about it. Love a celebrity or musician? Write them a fan letter. Write a bunch of letters to a 
bunch of people. Your local representative, celebrities, companies, prisoners, random pen pals in 
different countries. People underestimate the power of a handwritten letter. You might even hear 
back from them! 

186. Have a cooking competition with whatever food you have in your or their house 
If both of you are comfortable with visiting the other’s house on a date or if you live together, this can 
be an enjoyable way to spend the evening. It forces you both to be creative and can lead to some 
hilarious results. 

DOUBLE DATE IDEAS 

187. Find a world record and try to break it 
There are some crazy world records out there. Find a few that look like it would be fun to try, and all 
of you give it a shot. You probably won’t beat the record, but I’m sure you’ll all have fun trying. And if 
you do beat it, how cool would that be?! 



188. Go to a roller-skating rink 
Chances are you have a roller rink in your town and chances are you haven’t visited it in a very long 
time. So, head on over, lace up, and see how much you remember about skating. 

189. Darts or pool (best if everyone is bad at it) 
Hit up a bar that has darts or pool and give it a go. There are lots of dart and pool games to try, so look 
up the rules for a game none of you has played and try it out. You might find you like pool or darts, or 
you might just head back to the bar. Either way, a win! 

190. Do a themed photo shoot (professional or amateur) 
Time to get all dressed up and get goofy. You could stick with one theme or try a few themes. 
Professional photoshoots are always great, but this one works just as well with cell phone cameras. 

191. Go paintballing 
So, this one might be a bit intense if they’ve never been paintballing. If you have never tried it, go for 
it. It’s a blast. Just make sure you are okay with a little bit of stinging pain. Be on the same team 
though, no need to make your date mad by peppering them with paintballs. 

192. Take a train ride somewhere 
Riding a train isn’t very common in a lot of places in the USA. But there is a good chance that there is a 
train station in your city or town. Just make sure you’ll be able to catch the train back! 

193. Play laser tag together 
Not as much fun as paintball, but also less expensive and less painful. Just make sure your date is up 
for it. Laser tag, even though it’s pretty awesome, is not everyone’s idea of a fun date. 

194. Go pick some fruit at a pick your own fruit farm 
Most towns or cities will have a farm where you can pay to pick your own fruit. You can take it back 
home and eat it fresh or make it into a dessert. Either way, it’ll give you a chance to get out of the 
house and chat while doing something together. 

195. Create your own Olympics for you both to compete in 
This works great for double dates or with just two people. Make the events things you both can do 
equally well or poorly (highest card structure, quickest puzzle completion, etc.). Just make sure to not 
get TOO competitive with it. You could go all out and get some medals to give out too. 

196. Search “challenge” on YouTube and do whatever buck-wild challenges you 
want 
It kind of goes without saying that you should definitely film yourself doing the challenges. Just don’t 
go overboard and end up in the hospital, while it may make for a good story / video, it would be a 
lousy date. Have fun with it and see how crazy your date can be. 



197. Find the nearest small stream, make small boats, and then race them down the 
stream 
If you bring along a picnic, you can make a day of it. Of course, this one is very weather dependent so 
you’ll have to decide if it will be a nice day out. But even if the weather is bad, we have plenty of other 
date ideas that are great for inside dates as well. 

198. Go to an open mic night. Bonus points if one or both of you gets up on stage 
This one can be a bit hit or miss because at some open mic nights, it’s a little challenging to have a 
conversation with all the noise. But you’ll definitely have something to talk about afterward, and if one 
/ both of you gets up on stage, it’ll surely be a memorable evening. 

199. Set up an obstacle course in the back yard or at a park 
This is a really fun one for double dates. Each couple is a team and it often leads to some hilarious 
antics. Just remember, as with all the competitive date ideas, try not to take it too seriously. Oh, and 
try not to injure yourself. 

200. Go to Target or Walmart, buy cheap RC cars, then race/crash/destruction derby 
them 
There are all kinds of fun things you can do. Set up courses and jumps. Race them. Play tag with them. 
Cheap is key though. Some of the RC cars can get crazy expensive. 

Find loads of great questions on conversationstartersworld.com 



Downloadable 
Date Nights to 

Strengthen Your 
Marriage

© 2015 Dr. Greg and Erin Smalley 
Excerpt from Crazy Little Thing Called Marriage



Date Night 
Secret #1

One secret to maintaining romance in your marriage is to make a commitment to having one date a 
week. That’s just you, your spouse, and an idea for fun. Erin and I usually also make time to share a meal. 
Preferably, you and your spouse should get away from the house and any distractions. But if an hour 
alone at home after the kids are asleep is all you’ve got, then make it work.

A date night should also include a short list of topics for discussion—and we don’t mean household 
business like who’s going to take little Morton to the dentist or whether you should put eggshells in the 
compost heap. We mean relationship topics that are presented in the form of questions like these: What 
attributes do you appreciate most about me? What dreams do you have for the next decade?

Commitment Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to increase the commitment level of your marriage.
In honor of Chinese general Sun Tzu, author of The Art of War, cook a Chinese meal together, or buy 

Chinese food at a sit-down restaurant, take-out chain, or at the grocery store.

Each spouse is to ask the following questions to the other spouse:

What was the most important part of our wedding vows?
What do you love about your marriage? List your favorite aspects of your marriage relationship.
What things do you see that demonstrate you have “burned the boats” and are committed to you?
What was most difficult about “burning the boats” for you?

Got More Time?
Watch one of these movies or select one of your own that reflects a theme in this chapter. If you’re 

unsure if these selections are right for you, check out the movie reviews at Focus on the Family’s Plugged 
In website (www.pluggedin.com).

The Song—lifelong commitment
Les Miserables—sacrificial love
The Spy Next Door—marriage is worth fighting for, even if you’re a spy

Plan for Romance
Bring home a souvenir from your date night as a memento. It could be the take-out menu, chopsticks, 

or a fortune from inside an almond cookie. While you drive home, brainstorm a dream vacation or a 
special date. Later, budget to set aside some cash—ten dollars a week or more—so you can go somewhere 
or do something special for your next wedding anniversary. Keep the cash or a slip of paper with a run-
ning total written on it in a jar. Glue the memento to the jar so you have a visual reminder of your plans. 
Spending money on your marriage shows that you honor it.

1



Date Night  
Secret #2

In honor of the first nuclear chain reaction, which took place at Stagg Field, University of Chicago, dine 
on the best Chicago-style pizza you can bake or buy. During the date, discuss the ways you like to best relate 
to God. The goal is to understand how each of you uniquely connects spiritually with the Creator.

To help you out, we’ve listed nine spiritual love languages that are outlined in the book Sacred Path-
ways by Gary Thomas. See which of these match your style. 

The Naturalist who is most inspired to love God out-of-doors by being in a natural setting.
The Sensate who loves God with the senses—through awareness of taste, smell, touch, sight, and 

sound.
The Traditionalist who loves God through ritual and symbol.
The Ascetic who prefers to love God in solitude and simplicity.
The Activist who loves God through contributing toward justice and the enhancement of life in the 

world.
The Caregiver who loves God by loving others.
The Enthusiast who loves God with mystery and celebration.
The Contemplative who loves God through contemplation.
The Intellectual who loves God with the mind.

Got More Time?
At home, list the “spiritual giants” in your life. Those wonderful folks can be obscure people only you 

know, a relative, or a friend. But each of you must also list at least one contemporary Christian leader who 
has influenced you. Find a YouTube clip of that person and watch it together.

Plan for Romance
Pick a special spiritual event to attend—a church service out of your city, a couples retreat, a Christian 

concert, an apologetics seminar, a prayer hike—and plan to stay overnight in romantic accommodations, 
even if it’s your bedroom that has been spruced up and the kids are taken care of somewhere else. Keep 
track of your spiritual insights and discuss them together the next morning.

2



Date Night  
Secret #3

We suspect that when you first started dating you talked till the wee hours of the morning. You 
couldn’t wait to share the news of the day with your future spouse. But as the years ticked away, you de-
cided the menu had changed. You could wait hours, days, or weeks to talk. Well, snap out of that mindset! 
This is the season to talk and share and delight in each other as never before.

Communication Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to increase the communication level in your mar-

riage.
Make “Talk-Os” or go out to a Mexican restaurant and order some tacos you normally wouldn’t. With 

each ingredient, pick the first letter and say something you know about your spouse that begins with that 
letter sound. If you order or make fish tacos, for example, the ingredients would likely include fish, batter, 
cabbage, mayonnaise, pepper, and corn. You’d tell your spouse something like this: “F stands for your fa-
vorite pair of shoes, which are the Clark’s tennis shoes. B is for your brother, who makes you worry. You 
wish he wouldn’t drink so often.”

Cue up the YouTube clip, “It’s Not about the Nail,” watch it together, and share if you’ve been in 
either spot. Talk about “what the nail might be” in your marriage. This is the link: www.youtube.com/
watch?v=-4EDhdAHrOg.

3



Date Night  
Secret #4

A date night should be fun for both spouses. Make sure you’ve crossed off enough to-dos on the chore 
list so you can relax. If that means waiting to go out for dessert on a Saturday night, then so be it. It’s 
important to have your hearts and minds clear to focus on each other.

Fighting for Peace Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to improve your ability to keep open hearts.
Go to a place that serves “comfort” foods such as meatloaf and mashed potatoes or chicken and dump-

lings . . . or whatever emotionally satisfying pile of carbohydrates fits the bill.

Each spouse is to ask the following questions to the other spouse:

Was your mom a Fighter or a Flighter? What about your dad?
Who is someone you know who handles conflict in a healthy way?
What do you identify as our first fight, and how could we have handled it differently?

Got More Time?
Watch a classic romance movie set during wartime in which the couple argues a lot. Ask each other 

what the main characters’ hot buttons or pop-ups are. Some good choices include Gone with the Wind, 
Casablanca, or The Patriot. (Remember to check Focus on the Family’s Plugged In website (www.
pluggedin.com) for movie reviews of newer releases to make sure they are appropriate for you and your 
spouse.)

Plan for Romance
Decide to revisit and talk through one of your more manageable fights. Work on the conflict resolution 

skills taught in this chapter . . . then kiss and make up.

4



Date Night  
Secret #5

No one wants to be on a date with someone who talks negatively about other people. Learn to honor 
all in your speech, not merely your spouse. When you date your spouse, don’t complain about your boss, 
coworkers, basketball buddies, best friends, mothers, or your kids’ teachers. Don’t talk about them, and if 
possible, don’t even think about them. Honor your spouse by providing him or her with your undivided 
attention and a positive attitude.

Honoring Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to help you see the value of your marriage partner.
To tip your hat to Starbucks and having a “special something” relationship, plan ahead to make a hot 

drink part of your meal together.

Ask each other the following questions:

What was the first thing you respected or admired about me?
What is one thing I’ve done for you that has made you “warm up” to me?
One a scale of 1 to 10, how much did your parents honor each other? How did their attitudes affect 

your view of marriage?

Got More Time?
Gather some nice paper and markers or colored pencils. Begin to list the positive traits of each other. 

Your goal should be at least one trait or memory for each year you’ve been married. Newlyweds should 
strive for at least five.

Plan for Romance
Hebrews 3:14 speaks to the honor of marriage and the importance of the “marriage bed.” While you’re 

on your date, plan something that will put that “something special” into your sex life or the atmosphere of 
your bedroom.

5



Date Night  
Secret #6

Sometimes your spouse needs to know a date is all about him or her. Be sure that you don’t aim for 
win-win dates every week, compromising so that each of you is half-pleased with the choice. Every once 
in a while, you should sacrifice a night and do what your spouse wants to do, even if it’s not your favorite. 
(Scratch that; do it even if you’d rather contract a tapeworm!) Make him or her feel pandered to, catered 
to, as if his or her wants are the most important thing in the world to you.

Nourishing Date Night
Plan ahead on how to work some nourishing Superfoods into a meal either at home, health-food store 

salad bar, or at a restaurant. Choose from wild-caught salmon, grass-fed beef, avocados, sweet potatoes, 
kale, blueberries, broccoli, mushrooms, almonds—go organic if you can.

While you’re dining, discuss the top three “nourishing” actions your spouse already provides for you. 
Affirm him or her in those areas.

Got More Time?
Sometime in the next week, create a list of ways you’d like to be nourished, and ask you spouse to do 

the same. Have your spouse answer the statement: “I feel loved when you—.” You answer the statement 
as well. Set aside an extra thirty minutes in the morning to discuss the lists together. Pick one or two 
things from the list you can do this week to nourish your spouse.

Plan for Romance
Nourishing your spouse includes caring for his or her physical well-being as well as emotional and 

spiritual needs. Set aside resources to learn how to give an energizing foot and calf massage. Choose a 
night and treat each other to a massage. You don’t have to stop at the legs!

6



Date Night  
Secret #7

Spending time together as a family can also bond couples, so this date night idea is for those of you 
who can’t find babysitters or can’t afford one. You’ll grow closer as a couple when you see each other 
being good parents, because those moments build respect. 

So while family dates aren’t great on a weekly basis, every once in a while they’re beneficial. Your 
kids will also get to see what it’s like for a man to treat his wife with respect, and vice versa. And, while 
we don’t recommend you make out, showing affection to your spouse will be a good thing for your kids 
to witness.

Time Date Night
Learn the art of pre-ordering a meal at a fast-food restaurant like Chipotle or a sit-down casual din-

er like Red Robin. Save the phone numbers in your cell phone for the next time you’re in a rush. (This 
doesn’t work as well at nice, elegant establishments where ambiance and top-notch service are part of 
the experience.) You’ll discover that you can save twenty to thirty minutes, which can be the difference 
between having enough time or not.

While you’re dining, discuss your next adventures together as a family or couple to connect. Here’s 
the Smalley go-to list: local hiking, miniature golfing, shopping, going to the discount movie theater or 
renting a video, bowling, or buying a day pass to the YMCA or other recreation center.

Got More Time?
Plan a year’s worth of family together time. Instead of buying gifts for birthdays or holidays, consider 

setting aside the money for a trip or other adventure to commemorate the days. This will teach your chil-
dren how to plan ahead, the joy of anticipation, and the value of family community.

Plan for Romance
Take the next step for the anniversary trip you began saving and planning for in the Commitment Date 

Night. Book the hotel or the plane flight today. Don’t wait till “one day.” That day is today!

7



Date Night  
Secret #8

Embracing Date Night
Try something new and exciting, an activity you’ll both enjoy. Whatever your choice, make sure to 

listen to your spouse and empathize with him or her while you are having fun together. You might want to 
consider a quieter activity, without a lot of distractions and stimulation, a time that affords you the oppor-
tunity to zero in and focus on one another. Convey tenderness toward your mate throughout the evening.

Got More Time?
Talk through some questions in a quiet and romantic spot. Focus on the topic of tenderness. 

Ask things like:

What things do I do that communicate tenderness toward you?
Are there other ways I can communicate tenderness on a regular basis?
Were your parents tender toward each other? How?
Especially after long, tough days, how can we make a real effort to reconnect and show tenderness and 

empathy?

Plan for Romance
Dim the lights. Light a scented candle or two. Whisper “sweet nothings” in your spouse’s ear. That’s 

an old-fashioned phrase, but it’s still romantic today. What words of praise and love will mean the most to 
your loved one? Get up close and personal and whisper in each other’s ears. 

8



Date Night  
Secret #9

Keep in mind that the two of you are much more than a couple. You are a team! You are working 
toward the same goals, using your strengths and skills to complement each other. Your teamwork reflects 
this truth from 1 Corinthians 12:12: “The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts; and though 
all its parts are many, they form one body. So it is with Christ.” And so it is with your marriage. Be ready 
to spend some time together enjoying the way you work together as a couple and the unique contributions 
each of you makes to your team.

Service Date Night
Here are some suggestions for a date night designed to help you appreciate the service aspect of your 

marriage.
Think up some exciting, team-based activities to do together. Maybe go bowling with another couple 

and form teams as couples. Or go to a karaoke club and sing a duet together. If you want to stay in, host 
a game night with other married couples. Rather than using the old “guys play the girls” approach, stick 
together as married couples and work as a team. Serve your spouse by putting him or her in the spotlight, 
supporting the strengths of your teammate. Be a cheerleader as well as a team member. Win or lose, have 
fun playing together.

Got More Time?
Choose an activity you enjoy doing together, from going out for a meal to taking a long walk in a spe-

cial place. During your time together, each should make an effort to show extra thoughtfulness and care 
to the other. Focus on being supportive and appreciative of each other, demonstrating gratitude for your 
spouse. Think of a special gesture of love and appreciation you can offer to provide in the week ahead.

Plan for Romance
Make a thank-you card for your spouse; it can be very simple, but it ought to be handmade. Write a 

note that affirms your spouse and thanks him or her for some act of service regularly performed around 
the house. Recognize the sacrifice of time your spouse makes for you in caring for your home. Each of 
you can leave your card on top of the other’s pillow, so you can read them together before going to bed.

If you can’t think of anything to write, find an inspirational teamwork quote like this one on Pinterest: 
“A snowflake is one of God’s most fragile creations, but look what they can do when they stick together.”

9



Date Night  
Secret #10

This chapter talks about the real battle in marriage: keeping your heart open and guarding against 
apathy and hardness. Special time spent together will help you stay connected throughout the challenges 
of life.

Enduring Date Night
Pick out a new recipe, one you’ve never made before. (If you are stuck, go online to find recipe ideas. 

And if you lack confidence in your cooking skills, you can find step-by-step cooking videos on YouTube.) 
Buy the ingredients together beforehand and make that part of the fun. Find the freshest ingredients you 
can. Cook your recipe at home and enjoy it together!

Got More Time?

While enjoying your meal together, discuss the following questions:

Do you like this recipe?
Are there some other recipes we could try together?
How well did we perform as a team on this project?
Were we both open to doing something new?
Did you learn anything about me during this process of making a meal together?

Plan for Romance
Make or buy a delicious dessert, something sticky and gooey. Change into comfortable clothes…

easily washable! Wash your hands, then feed dessert to each other without using spoons or forks. If you 
didn’t get a chance to feed each other wedding cake on your wedding day (or even if you did), now’s your 
opportunity to feed your spouse. Feel free to laugh, and to be messy!

10



Date Night  
Secret #11

Time together can smooth off the rough edges of your relationship, especially during times of stress.

Pearls Date Night
For this date night, honor the shelled animals that create pearls. Visit an oyster bar or enjoy clam 

chowder at a seafood restaurant or at home.

While you’re dining, talk about the following questions:

What makes you feel safe in our relationship?
What was something difficult that led to something good in our married life?
Name one area where you feel you are teachable. What’s one where you need to grow and learn?

Got More Time?
Visit a department store with a jewelry department. Evaluate the difference between the plastic pearl 

necklaces or earrings and the merchandise in the glass cases. Note the sheen, color, size, and price.
While you’re out, tell your spouse the reasons he or she is a treasure to you.

Plan for Romance
Start saving for a piece of jewelry or other jeweled ornament (for example, cuff links, pin, belt buckle, 

or money clip). It doesn’t have to be expensive. Present it to your spouse on his or her next birthday, your 
anniversary, or at a “just because” celebration.

11



Date Night  
Secret #12

Consider going on double dates with other couples at least three times a year. Don’t feel as if you need 
to become best friends with them, because sometimes fellowship depth isn’t there—but look forward to 
it if you do connect. Here’re two ideas to get the night moving: Ask the husband and wife their individual 
stories about their childhoods. Let them choose the restaurant, but add this condition—they have to share 
their “love story” over dinner (how they met, fell in love, the proposal, the wedding, and the honeymoon).

Fellowship Date Night
Choose which kind of couple fellowship you and your spouse would like to cultivate: mentor, peer, or 

mentee. Start calling at least a week in advance and ask a couple that matches your criteria to a double date.

While you’re dining, ask the following questions of the other couple:

Who was in your wedding party? Are you still close to those individuals?
Who or what has influenced your marriage the most?
What’s one piece of marriage advice you can give to us? Or, What’s been the toughest time in your 

marriage that you feel comfortable talking about?

Got More Time?
Plan a short hike or trip to a museum with the couple. Go somewhere you can talk—avoid movies or 

plays unless you have time to chat for an hour afterward.

Plan for Romance
Take that overnight you’ve been planning. Bring your wedding video or photo album so that you can 

watch or read it together. Reminisce about the memorable things that have happened over the course of 
your marriage (your first date, when you fell in love, your wedding, your honeymoon, your first apartment 
or house together). You have an amazing love story. One of the best things you can do for your marriage 
is to reminisce about your life together. Remembering the good times you’ve had in your marriage can 
help strengthen the bond between you and your spouse and draws you closer together. Recalling memora-
ble events also provides hope through the anticipation of similar enjoyable times in the future, helps you 
remember happier times, and helps you keep a positive attitude about your marriage: “Although we’ve 
gone through some hard times, we’ve made it through . . . we’re pretty good together.”

12



5 2  M U S T - H A V E
D AT E  N I G H T

C O N V E R S AT I O N
S TA R T E R S

F O R  A  M A R R I A G E  A F T E R  G O D

These 52 unique conversation starters are intended to help 
you and your spouse jump into intentional conversations  

as the two of you continue to cultivate intimacy and 
experience growth in your marriage. As you two experience the 

next year of date nights, whether you have a “date night in” after the kids go 
to bed or go out for an evening of fun, we encourage you to use one of  

these conversation starters to inspire your topic of discussion and enjoy 
sharing your hearts with one another. Our hope is that over the next 52 weeks 

the two of you prioritize a weekly date night, and that you have deep, 
intentional conversations on these date nights about how God is moving in 

your lives as you pursue building a Marriage After God together! 
 One fun way to do this is to print out these conversation starters, cut them 

up, fold them up, and then place them in a mason jar. That way they are  
ready to use, and all you have to do is take turns drawing one!



1 My favorite thing about you is...

2 What are some things I do on a regular basis that fill you with joy?

3 In what ways has God used me to inspire you to be a better person? 

4 What is a favorite meal you would like to make together? And who can we invite 
 over to bless with this meal?

5 Is there an area of our marriage we are not unified in that we can work on?

6 When we look back over our years of marriage, I would hope people knew us  
 to be...

7 If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be and why? 

8 What has God been teaching you lately?

9 I thank God for our life together because…

10 What worship song has been on your heart lately and how is it impacting you?

11 Three things I am thankful for about you are...

12 Is there anything you want to share with me that has been weighing heavy on  
 your heart?

13 My favorite marriage moment so far is...

14 The one thing that worries me most about the future is...

15 What can I do for you that will help cultivate intimacy in our relationship?

16 If you could choose one Old Testament story to have been a part of and  
 experienced, what would it be and why? 



17 What is your favorite memory from us dating? 

18 The one area I would encourage you to intentionally grow in would be...

19 If you could have dinner with anyone from the Bible (not Jesus because He’s a  
 given!), who would it be and why?

20 What kinds of things do you consider most romantic? 

21 I like it when you...

22 Who are some people in our lives that our family can uniquely love on and how  
 can we do it this next week?

23 One of the hardest areas of marriage for me is...

24 Did anything happen this last week that hurt you or that we can improve upon  
 as a couple? 

25 If we spent time organizing one area of the house this week, what would it be  
 and what would we need to do?

26 Our marriage works best when...

27 Is there any part of my work routine that is negatively impacting our marriage 
 or our family?

28 How might we use our work to build God’s kingdom?

29 What is my favorite candy/dessert? 

30 What financial goal(s) should we pursue next? 

31 If you could spend a week with your ancestors or your great-great-great- 
 grandchildren, who would you choose and why? 



32 What is one way you would want me to love you this next week? 

33 How might God want us to use our finances to bless others?

34 What is our vision for leaving a legacy with our family? 

35 How can I be praying for you this next week? 

36 What are you currently reading and how is it impacting you?

37 How can we be participating in deeper fellowship with other believers?

38 When you think about the end times, what’s your biggest question? 

39 What is your favorite memory from our wedding day?

40 In your own words, what is the Gospel? Take turns sharing it with each other. 

41 Before God calls us home, what do you hope to accomplish here on  
 earth together? 

42 If I was a superhero, who would you say I am and why? 

43 How have you been studying the Word and what has stood out to you?

44 Our children would be so surprised if we…

45 If you had $100 to spend on whatever you want, no strings or obligation attached,  
 how would you spend it? 

46 Where do we want to be in five years?

47 What is your favorite thing about us being intimate? 



48 Do you have any dreams in your heart of things you want to do or create or learn? 

49 If we spent time tackling one project this week, what would it be and how could  
 we do it? 

50 What vision do we have for the future?

51 If we envision ourselves in our nineties, sitting on the porch in matching rocking  
 chairs, you would look over at me and say, “I wish we…”

52 If we could do anything together for a whole day, if money was not a question,  
 what would you want to do?